AND
20 22 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETINGS.
I&apos;M CANDICE BRIERRE,
CHAIRPERSON, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IN
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING
ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX
FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
USE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
QUICKLY BEFORE WE HAVE OUR ROLL
CALL, I WOULD LIKE TO WELCOME
CHRIS MADIGAN, OUR NEWEST ZIBA
MEMBER.
WELCOME CHRIS.
ALL RIGHT, TIME FOR ROLL CALL.
I AM HERE MCDANIEL HERE DAVE
DIVERSITY DIVERSITY HERE.
CHRIS MADIGAN, YOU&apos;RE JULIA
GOOD.
CHRIS BAILEY HERE.
TODD GRANT, YOU&apos;RE ELIZABETH
NELSON HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS REGARDING THE AGENDA?
IF NOT, DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOTION FOR
MY SUPPORT SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM
CHRIS.
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSE MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
FEBRUARY.
TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY TWO
MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES IF NOT DO HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE MINUTES MOTION
FROM CHRIS SUPPORT FROM MY
FAVOR I OPPOSED.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO OUR FIRST PUBLIC
HEARING THIS EVENING PETITION
ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH ZERO ZERO
SIX TWELVE HUNDRED PROSPECT
STREET JOHN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M JOHN BARRETT ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THE FIRST PETITION THIS EVENING
IS A TWENTY TWO DASH ZERO ZERO
SIX.
THE ADDRESS IS TWELVE HUNDRED
PROSPECT STREET CHRIS VESSELS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING PERMISSION FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO CREATE
HABITABLE SPACE IN THE BASEMENT
AND CONSTRUCT A SECOND STORY TO
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
DUPLEX.
THE EXISTING DUPLEX UNITS BOTH
CONTAIN TWO BEDROOMS AND A
BATHROOM.
THE APPLICANTS ARE PROPOSING
SIX BEDROOMS AND SIX AND A HALF
BATHROOMS IN EACH UNIT.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED BY OUR
FORESEE MULTIPLE FAMILY
DISTRICT AND IS NOT CONFORMING
FOR A LOT AREA LOT WITH AND
SETBACKS.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS WITHIN
THE BYRNES PARK NEIGHBORHOOD
SOUTH OF EAST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
ON THE WEST SIDE OF PROSPECT
STREET.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FIFTY SIX AND APPROXIMATELY SIX
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED TWENTY ONE
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE APPLICANTS ARE SEEKING TO
ALTER THE NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE BY CREATING NEW
HABITABLE SPACE IN THE BASEMENT
AND CONSTRUCTING A NEW SECOND
STORY THAT WILL COMPLY WITH THE
30 FOOT HEIGHT RESTRICTION FOR
THE DISTRICT.
THE NEW UNITS WILL NEAR ONE
ANOTHER.
SOME OF THE UPGRADES WILL BE
NEW WINDOW WELLS, FIRE RATED
WALLS AND SPRAY FOAM INSULATION
TO INCREASE ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
THE EXISTING BUILDING WILL
REMAIN THE SAME LENGTH AND WITH
AND THE HEIGHT BEING THE ONLY
EXTERIOR ALTERATION THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES ABOUT THREE
STORIES AND APPROXIMATELY 30
FEET IN HEIGHT MOVING TO THE
POWERPOINT
, KRISTEN ARE YOU
THERE THAT SAME HOME THE HOST
OF DISABLED PARTICIPANT SCREEN
SHARING TRY AGAIN.
OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
THE FIRST LINE IS THE ZONING
MAP.
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL
OF SUBJECT PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED
IN YELLOW IN THE CENTER OF YOUR
SCREEN ON THE WEST SIDE
OF PROSPEKT AND EAST OF PACARD
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL ABOUT
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND AS I SAID IT
DOESN&apos;T MEET THE LOT AREA
REQUIREMENTS WITH OR SETBACKS
FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE NEXT SLIDE ARE THE EXISTING
EAST AND WEST ELEVATION
DRAWINGS AND A FEW REFERENCE
PHOTOS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS A SITE PLAN
AND ALSO NEW ELEVATION
DRAWINGS.
THE NEXT GLIDERS, MORE
ELEVATION DRAWINGS, THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED EXCUSE
ME THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
EXISTING LAYOUT OF THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE AND THE EXISTING
PLACEMENT.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED I
MEAN ONCE THE PROPOSED FIRST
FLOOR I BELIEVE THAT IS CAN&apos;T
READ THE SLIDE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT&apos;S FIRST FLOOR.
THAT&apos;S THE FIRST FLOOR AND YOU
SEE THE LIVING AREAS, THE
KITCHEN DINING ROOM AND A
BEDROOM AND AS I PREVIOUSLY
STATED, THE THE UNITS WILL
MIRROR ONE ANOTHER.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE NEW SECOND
FLOOR AND YOU SEE THE NEW
PROPOSED BEDROOMS AND BATHROOMS
.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE NEW
PROPOSED BASEMENT WITH
ADDITIONAL BEDROOMS AND
BATHROOMS IN THE BASEMENT.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AND MY INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE FRONT FACADE OF THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE LOOKING DOWN
THE EAST SIDE OF THE STRUCTURE
AND THE DRIVEWAY SIDE.
THIS IS THE REAR FACADE.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE REAR
FACADE, THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY AND THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE TWO
AND JUST THE OTHER SIDE.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OTHER
ADJACENT PROPERTY.
AND LIKE I SAID, YOU SEE THAT
DIFFERENCE IN HEIGHT AND THE
DIFFERENCE IN MACING THIS IS
THE EXISTING PARKING LOT AND
THE REAR OF THE PROPERTY AND
THAT IS ALL I HAVE AT THIS TIME
AND I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS THAT IS JOHN.
THIS CAME UP ONCE BEFORE AND I
HAVEN&apos;T DEALT WITH THE NOTICE
OF THE HOME THE SORT OF A
CRUMMY QUESTION TO ASK BUT THIS
IS A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE
AND THERE&apos;S SOME CAP ON GIVEN
WHATEVER THE CURRENT MARKET
VALUE IS ON HOW MUCH MONEY CAN
BE SPENT ON AN UPGRADE.
ISN&apos;T THAT CORRECT?
AND IF SO, THEY EXCEEDED THIS
AMOUNT?
&gt;&gt; NO, THAT&apos;S WHEN THEY&apos;RE ONLY
GOING TO DESTROY A STRUCTURE.
SO I UNDERSTOOD THAT THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO DESTROY IT.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO DESTROY OR
DEMOLISH AND THERE&apos;S A CERTAIN
BUT THEY&apos;RE JUST GOING TO REHAB
THIS.
YEP.
YOU DID IT GOOD.
THANK YOU.
YEP.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN
RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS READY YOU
MAY BEGIN YOUR PRESENTATION.
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES
YOU&apos;RE
SAYING HEY CHRIS WE CAN&apos;T HEAR
YOU READ YOUR SILENCE HERE
MUTED I CAN&apos;T HEAR YOU.
IS THAT BETTER?
&gt;&gt; WE CAN HEAR YOU NOW.
YOU CAN HEAR IT NOW.
OK, EXCELLENT.
WELL THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERABLE ACTION IN THIS
MATTER.
I REALLY DO APPRECIATE IT.
SO THE PROPERTY WE HAVE HERE
IT&apos;S A TWELVE HUNDRED PROSPECT.
IT&apos;S CURRENTLY A DUPLEX.
IT&apos;S CURRENTLY EACH SIDE HAS
TWO BEDROOMS, ONE BATHROOM AND
AND EACH SIDE HAS THE COMMON
STAIRWAY INTO THE BASEMENT ITS
OWN UNFINISHED SPACE FOR
LAUNDRY THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY EQUAL
SQUARE FOOTAGE TO THE CURRENT
LIVING AREA.
THE HOUSE YOU KNOW IT&apos;S THE
ORIGINAL NINETEEN FIFTY SIX
CONSTRUCTION.
YOU KNOW I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S THEY
WOULD CALL THAT TODAY IF A
REALTOR WERE TRYING TO SELL IT
A MID CENTURY MODERN BUT
USUALLY THOSE PROPERTIES ARE A
LITTLE BIT NICER THAN THIS ONE
I WOULD SAY SO YOU KNOW IT&apos;S
ONE OUR COMPANY HAS ACTUALLY
MANAGED IT QUITE A BIT LONGER
BUT I&apos;VE OWNED IT SINCE 2005.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;VE HAD THIS IN
MIND FOR SOME TYPE
OF RENOVATION EVER SINCE THEN.
YOU KNOW IT&apos;S AN EYESORE.
I&apos;M SURE THE NEIGHBORS ARE
LOOKING AT THIS THIS LITTLE
THING DO IT IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
SO THEY&apos;RE PROBABLY HEAD OVER
HEELS ABOUT THE FACT THAT, YOU
KNOW, WE&apos;RE TRYING TO GIVE IT
QUITE A REFURBISHMENT AND AND
YOU KNOW, JUST AN OVERALL
ESTHETIC IMPROVEMENT ON BUT BUT
ANYWAY SO SO THE PROPERTY AS IT
STANDS RIGHT NOW, IT&apos;S YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S VERY POORLY
INSULATED.
YOU KNOW, BACK IN 1956 WHEN IT
WAS BUILT THE YOU KNOW, ENERGY
COSTS FOR NOTHING.
SO THEY CERTAINLY WEREN&apos;T AS
WORRIED ABOUT MAKING SURE
EVERYTHING STAYED IN AS THEY
ARE NOWADAYS.
AND IT&apos;S YOU IT HAS IT HAS A
VERY LEAKY ROOF.
I WAS TOLD BY THE ARCHITECT
THAT THE ROOF PITCH IS ACTUALLY
YOU KNOW, EITHER NOT UP TO
CODE OR JUST YOU ARE NOT ABLE
TO GET A WARRANTY ON THAT PITCH
ANYMORE BECAUSE OF YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S JUST OBSOLETE.
SO THERE ARE QUITE A FEW
STRUCTURAL DEFICITS TO IT AND
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A PRIME CANDIDATE FOR
SOMETHING THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
CAN JUST REALLY, REALLY UPGRADE
BRING IT UP TO MODERN COLD
MODERN STANDARDS, MODERN ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND WE&apos;RE CERTAINLY
PROUD TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT
WITH THIS PROPOSAL.
SO WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS WE&apos;RE
GOING TO KEEP THE SAME TWO
UNITS SO SO IT REALLY WILL
REMAIN A DUPLEX.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE THREE STORIES
SO YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
A COUPLE OF BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENT WHICH THERE&apos;S
CURRENTLY NO LIVING SPACE.
THE BEDROOMS IN THE BASEMENT
I&apos;M LOOKING AT THEM TO YOU
KNOW, COMPARED TO COMPARED TO
YOU KNOW WHAT WHAT I AT LEAST
HAD WHEN I WAS GOING BACK A
WHILE AGO.
BUT YOU KNOW, YOU&apos;RE LIVING IN
A SHOE BOX AND THESE VETERANS
IN THE BASEMENT ARE EACH TWO
HUNDRED EIGHTY SIX SQUARE FEET
WITH THEIR OWN PRIVATE
BATHROOM, FULL BATHROOM.
SO IT&apos;S ALMOST LIKE EACH PERSON
IT&apos;S THEIR OWN APARTMENT.
SO IT&apos;S QUITE AN UPGRADE FROM
THE USUAL STUDENT EXPERIENCE
THAT YOU KNOW, I&apos;M SURE MOST
PEOPLE HAVE DEALT WITH IN THE
PAST.
SO YOU GOT TWO BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENT, ONE ON THE ON THE
MAIN FLOOR ALONG KITCHEN LIVING
ROOM IN EACH UNIT WHICH AS JOHN
WAS SAYING, IT&apos;S A MIRROR IMAGE
BEDROOM ON THE MAIN FLOOR STILL
A HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET WHICH IS MORE THAN
TWICE AS LARGE AS IT NEEDS TO
BE.
SO YOU KNOW, IN THAT ALSO HAS
ITS OWN BATHROOM AND THEN SO IN
IN THE TOP FLOOR THERE&apos;S
THERE&apos;S A BALCONY, A SMALL
BALCONY THAT GOES OUTSIDE AND
THEN THERE&apos;S THREE BEDROOMS
THAT ARE EACH ONE HUNDRED
SEVENTY TWO SQUARE FEET ONE
SEVENTY TWO AND ONE 82 EACH
WITH THEIR OWN FULL BATHROOM.
SO YOU KNOW THESE ARE WONDERFUL
WONDERFUL BEDROOMS, YOU KNOW WE
REALLY DESIGNED THIS WITH THE
TENANT EXPERIENCE IN MIND JUST
BECAUSE NOBODY WANTS TO LIVE
THREE PEOPLE IN A SHOE BOX LIKE
THEY USED TO AND YOU KNOW, I
THINK PEOPLE DEMAND A LITTLE
BIT HIGHER QUALITY LIVING
SITUATION NOWADAYS ESPECIALLY
YOU KNOW, AFTER COVID AND AFTER
ALL THE STUFF WE&apos;VE HAD TO DEAL
WITH THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS.
SO WHAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING
IS THAT
THE CONSTRUCTION FOR THIS
UPDATED UNIT AT A BARE MINIMUM
IN TERMS OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY
WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO SPRAY FOAM
THROUGHOUT SPRAY ON THE ROOF.
SO IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE EFFICIENT
THAN IT CURRENTLY IS.
YOU KNOW, IN ITS CURRENT FORM
IT&apos;S ONE OF THOSE ONES WHERE
EVEN AFTER IT SNOWS A FOOT
THERE&apos;S STILL NO SNOW ON THE
ROOF BECAUSE THE IT&apos;S JUST YOU
KNOW, JUST GOING STRAIGHT OUT
OF THE ROOF AND MELTING IT
RIGHT AWAY.
SO WE ARE AT THE MINIMUM IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE STRAIGHTFORWARD.
WE ARE CONSIDERING EVEN
UPGRADING THAT TO TWO SIP&apos;S
PANELING, WHICH IS THE THE IT&apos;S
A TWO PIECE OF OSB WITH THE BIG
FOAM BETWEEN IT AND THAT WOULD
BE IN TERMS OF RESIDENTIAL THAT
WOULD BE THE ULTIMATE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IF THAT PRODUCT YOU
KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT OF ISSUES
WITH SUPPLY CHAIN AND
EVERYTHING ELSE BUT IF THAT
PRODUCT IS AVAILABLE WHEN WE GO
TO BUILD THIS SAY I WOULD SAY
SIX MONTHS KNOW THAT THAT WILL
ACTUALLY EXPLORE INTO AND SO
YOU KNOW AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO
ENERGY EFFICIENT APPLIANCES
EVERYTHING YOU KNOW AS WE&apos;RE
DOING THIS WITH ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IN MIND JUST BECAUSE
YOU KNOW IT MAKES SENSE
NOWADAYS.
SO LET&apos;S SEE HERE AND THEN IN
TERMS OF THE MARKET WE WILL
LIKELY DO YOU KNOW NEW
CONCRETE&apos;S NEW DRIVEWAY, THAT
KIND OF THING.
JUST JUST EVERYTHING ABOUT IT
WILL BE UPGRADED.
THE WINDOWS IT&apos;S GOING TO
ALTHOUGH IT WILL BE A ROLE
MODEL FOR IT WILL FOR ALL
INTENTS AND PURPOSES IT WILL BE
A BRAND NEW HOUSE.
BUT OBVIOUSLY IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
A REMODEL.
IT&apos;S GOING TO KEEP A
FOUNDATION.
IT&apos;S GOING TO KEEP SOME OF THE
OTHER ELEMENTS OF IT COST.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE HERE AND THEN IN
TERMS OF YEAH, HIGH EFFICIENCY
THE FURNACE WILL LIKELY GO
TANKLESS WATER HEATER.
SO YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S REALLY IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE EVERYTHING&apos;S GOING
TO BE VERY MODERN WITH THAT AND
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;LL REALLY BRING IT
FROM WHAT IT IS, YOU KNOW, JUST
AN EYESORE.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT DOESN&apos;T
REALLY SUIT ANYTHING TO YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S GOING TO BE BROUGHT
UP TO THE MODERN STANDARDS.
SO THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE RIGHT NOW.
I&apos;M OPEN TO ANY QUESTIONS THAT
ANYONE HAS.
&gt;&gt; NO THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
OK, UM, YEAH.
IT SEEMS LIKE AN UNUSUAL DESIGN
ONE BATHROOM FOR EVERY BEDROOM
AND MAKES ME WONDER ARE YOU
GOING TO BE RENTING THESE OUT
AS LIKE IS WITH A SHARED
KITCHEN AND LIVING SPACE, YOU
KNOW, SO THIS THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
SO SO WE ACTUALLY MOVED WITH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD I WALK DOWN
THE STREET LIKE EVERY DAY
ALMOST.
&gt;&gt; OH YEAH IT&apos;S IT&apos;S SO THIS IS
IT&apos;S VERY STUDENT HEAVY I THINK
MAYBE THERE ARE A COUPLE HOUSES
THERE DOWN TOWARD THE END
OF PROSPECT MAYBE THAT DO NOT
HAVE STUDENTS BUT I KNOW THAT
WE ARE STUDENT LANDLORDS.
WE DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY KIND
OF INTEREST IN DOING YOU KNOW,
SHORT TERM RENTAL RENTAL BY THE
ROOMMATES.
THAT&apos;S OUR HOUSEHOLD AND IT&apos;S
WORTH A LOT OF CASES BUT
THERE&apos;S YOU KNOW I&apos;VE SEEN IT&apos;S
I ALSO SELL REAL ESTATE THAT I
WORK HERE AND MY CLIENTS DO A
LOT OF DEVELOPMENT SIMILAR TO
THIS.
THERE&apos;S A VERY HIGH DEMAND FOR
THIS EXACT TYPE OF PRODUCT WITH
THE STUDENTS AND NO, THEY&apos;RE
LEASING IT AS ONE ONE MASTER
LEASE FOR IT AND YOU KNOW, THEY
JUST LOVE THE FACT THAT
EVERYONE HAS THEIR OWN
BATHROOM.
BUT NO, THERE&apos;S WE DON&apos;T HAVE
ANY INTEREST IN DOING, YOU
KNOW, SIX LEASES.
THEY&apos;RE RENTING IT SHORT TERM.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S JUST NOT IN OUR
WHEELHOUSE.
OK, THANK YOU, CHRIS.
YOU SAID YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
REBUILD THE PARKING AND I&apos;M
WONDERING IF YOU&apos;RE GOING TO BE
PUTTING IN ANY EVVY OR IF EVEN
THAT&apos;S A REQUIRED IN THIS
SITUATION.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, SO SO ONE I&apos;M GLAD
THAT YOU BROUGHT THAT UP.
SO IT&apos;S I DON&apos;T BELIEVE WE HAVE
ANY PLANS TO DO THAT RIGHT
AWAY.
HOWEVER, THE REASON FOR THAT IS
THAT THE SPECIFIC TENANT RIGHT
NOW THAT WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
THIS BUILDING OR YOU KNOW, SAY
A YEAR FROM NOW WHEN IT COMES
TO FRUITION WE HAVEN&apos;T SEEN AS
MUCH ABSORPTION OF THE IVY.
YOU KNOW, WE MANAGE ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY EIGHT HUNDRED AND
FIFTY UNITS AND WE HAVEN&apos;T SEEN
AS MUCH OF THE HEAVY ABSORPTION
INTO THIS SPECIFIC MARKET YET.
HOWEVER, WE ARE OBVIOUSLY YOU
KNOW, IN THE FUTURE SAY FIVE
YEARS FROM NOW WHEN WHEN THESE
ARE, YOU KNOW, SIX HUNDRED
PERCENT OF WHAT THEY ARE RIGHT
NOW WE&apos;RE ABSOLUTELY OPEN TO
THE IDEA OF OF INCORPORATING
CHARGING STATIONS INTO THIS ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
CERTAINLY THAT CERTAINLY THAT
THAT ALIGNS WITH OUR VALUES AS
WELL AS WHAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE OUR TENANTS DOING AS WELL
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW IS THE
CHEAPEST TIME TO PUT IT IN WHEN
YOU&apos;RE REDOING THE DRIVEWAY.
&gt;&gt; OH, I CAN ALSO ADD TO THAT
UM SO IT&apos;S A DUPLEX AND EACH
UNIT REQUIRES ONE POINT FIVE
SPACES SO THE TOTAL PART
OF PROPERTY WOULD REQUIRE THREE
SPACES.
THERE&apos;S MORE THAN THREE SPACES
IN THE REAR YARD NOW IT&apos;S
EXISTING ON CONFORMING.
THEY MEET THE REQUIREMENTS AND
EXCEEDED ACTUALLY AND THEN ALSO
THE PARKING IS NOT REQUIRED FOR
THIS PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
MANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER ONE MORE DAY.
SO IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE IT&apos;S A
BRICK EXTERIOR AND OUR STAFF
HAS SAID THAT IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO
BE A TEAR DOWN AND REBUILD BUT
YOU&apos;RE USING THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE.
BUT A LITTLE DRAWING SEEMS THAT
IT&apos;S MORE OF A DIFFERENT SIDING
THAN THE BRICK.
AND I&apos;M JUST WONDERING HOW YOUR
ARE YOU HOW YOU BUILDING A
SECOND FLOOR YOU&apos;RE BUILDING A
WHOLE NEW SECOND FLOOR.
WHAT DO YOU DO?
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
&gt;&gt; ARE YOU EXTENDING THE BRICK
UP OR HOW ARE YOU DOING?
SO SOMEHOW I HAD THE ARCHITECT
DO THESE THESE DIAGRAMS WITH
VINYL SIDING JUST BECAUSE I
THINK WE WOULD HAVE TROUBLE
MATCHING THAT TYPE OF BRICK
THAT&apos;S ON THERE RIGHT NOW TO
TRY TO PUT A SECOND STORY IN IT
AND THEN OBVIOUSLY THE ROOF
PATCH ABOVE IT.
IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, I THINK AT THIS
POINT THE VINYL YOU KNOW, A
VERY ATTRACTIVE PRODUCT A LOT
OF CASES AND WE CAN DO THAT
EITHER OVER THE BRICK OR WE
CAN, YOU KNOW, JUST RIP THE
BRICK OFF WHILE MAINTAINING THE
WALL AND THEN AND THEN JUST PUT
NEW VINYL SIDING.
THERE ARE THERE ARE WAYS WE
CAN, YOU KNOW, INCORPORATE THAT
INTO BUT YOU KNOW, THIS THIS
DESIGN THIS WOULD BE VINYL IS
HOW WE HAVE IT RIGHT NOW.
WE MAY GO HIGHER WITH THE
CEMENT FIBERBOARD OR AN EVEN
HIGHER QUALITY EXTERIOR
PRODUCT.
YOU KNOW, LIKE I SAID, IT
DEPENDS ON WHAT IS AVAILABLE IN
THE MARKET WHEN WE GO TO DO
THIS AS THERE ARE SHORTAGES
WITH A LOT OF THE STUFF.
BUT IT&apos;S HOW THESE ARE DROPPED.
WE CAN WE CAN EITHER DO THE
VINYL ON TOP OF THE BRICK OR WE
CAN REMOVE THE BRICK AND JUST
DO THE VINYL ALL THE WAY UP TOP
.
BUT IT WOULDN&apos;T IT WOULDN&apos;T IT
WOULDN&apos;T REQUIRE TEARING DOWN
ANY WALLS OR ANYTHING.
BRICK IS JUST YOU KNOW,
EXTERIOR COVERING ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, IF YOU ARE IN
PERSON, PLEASE COME FORWARD NOW
IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY, PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND.
YES, PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FUNCTION IF
YOU&apos;RE VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK
.
NO CALLERS HAVE INDICATED.
THANK YOU KRISTEN.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID NOT
RECEIVE ANY LETTERS
OF COMMUNICATION REGARDING THIS
PETITION.
SO WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION
.
WELL THIS IS THE EASY ONE.
IT&apos;S A NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE
AND THE APPLICANT DESCRIBED IT
VERY WELL.
IT&apos;S ENORMOUS IMPROVEMENT
CONSISTENT WITH CHANGES IN
TASTES AND STUDENT DESIRES AND
THE MARKET.
AND FOR ME THIS IS AN EASY IS
ELIZABETH I AGREE WITH TODD.
I MEAN IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A REALLY
NICE SITUATION WHERE THEY HAVE
ADEQUATE PARKING AND LIKE IT&apos;S
UNDERUTILIZATION OF THE SPACE
BUT ONLY BE A ONE STOREY
BUILDING IS KIND OF SILLY IN
THIS PART OF TOWN.
SO THIS IS I HAVE NO PROBLEM
SUPPORTING THIS THIS IS REALLY
GOOD.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WE READY
FOR EMOTION.
I THINK I&apos;LL MAKE A MOTION.
THANK YOU MOTION YOU ZEBA
TWENTY TWO DASH ZERO ZERO SIX
TWELVE HUNDRED PROSPECT STREET
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW NEW HATABLE STAY SPACE IN
THE BASEMENT AND CONSTRUCT A
SECOND STORY TO THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING DUPLEX.
THE NEW STRUCTURE WILL CONTAIN
TWO UNITS WITH SIX BEDROOMS AND
SIX AND A HALF BATHROOMS IN
EACH UNIT.
THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT AND
SETBACKS REMAIN UNCHANGED WITH
NO ADDITIONAL ENCROACHMENTS.
THE CONSTRUCTION MUST COMPLY
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS THE
MOTION TO SUPPORT FROM CHRIS.
THANK YOU MARK DANIEL.
YES, DAVE DEVOTEE DIWATA YES.
CHRIS BAILEY.
YES TIGRAN YES.
ELIZABETH NELSON YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
I ALSO GOT YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH ZERO ZERO SEVEN
ONE ZERO THREE ONE BRAD STREET
JOHN THANK YOU CANDICE
LOWERTOWN PROPER LLC IS SEEKING
A NINE NINE PARKING SPACE
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
NINETEEN DASH ONE OFF STREET
PARKING THE EXISTING VACANT
BUSINESS SPACE TO BE CONVERTED
TO A CAFE AND BAR.
THE BUILDING IS ONE THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED NINETY FIVE
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE WHICH
REQUIRES FOURTEEN OFF STREET
PARKING SPACES FOR A RESTAURANT
AND BAR USE.
THE PROPERTY IS ON C THREE
FRINGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
AT THE INTERSECTION OF BROADWAY
STREET AND MOORE STREET IN THE
LOWER LOWER TOWN DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE BUILDING WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
1938 ACCORDING TO THE CITY&apos;S
ASSESSOR&apos;S RECORDS THE PARCEL
IS FIVE THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
NINETEEN SQUARE FEET AND AREA.
THERE IS AN ATTACHED
CONVENIENCE STORE ON THE WEST
SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
THE STORE IS PART OF A
DIFFERENT PARCEL WITH THEIR OWN
PARKING AREA.
THE APPLICANTS ARE IN THE
PROCESS OF RENOVATING
A VACANT
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TO A NEW
BAR AND CAFE WHEN THE
RENOVATIONS ARE COMPLETED THE
BUSINESS WOULD ACCOMMODATE A
MAXIMUM OF FIFTY OCCUPANTS
THERE IS THAT PLANNED OUTDOOR
SEATING AREA WITH BENCH AND
LOUNGE SEATING THE BUSINESS HAS
MOST RECENTLY BEEN UTILIZED AS
A BARBER SHOP AND BICYCLE
REPAIR SHOP.
THE PREVIOUS USES HAD A PARKING
RATIO REQUIREMENT OF ONE SPACE
PER TWO AND EIGHTY SQUARE FEET
THAT REQUIRED SIX AND FIVE
SPACES RESPECTIVELY.
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
PARKING LOT CONTAINS ONLY FIVE
SPACES.
THE APPLICANTS ARE TRYING TO
CAPTURE THE WALKABILITY
COMPONENT OF THIS UNIQUE AREA
THAT IS SURROUNDED BY A
NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE NORTH IN
THE NEW BEAKMAN ON BROADWAY
DEVELOPMENT ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE INTERSECTION THAT IS
UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
BEFORE I GO ANY FURTHER I JUST
WANT TO BRING ATTENTION TO THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAFF REPORT ON
YOUR MOTION WORKSHEET FOR A
PARKING VARIANCE.
YOU SEE THE REQUIREMENTS LISTED
THERE.
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO MEET THE
REGULAR VARIANCE OF THE FIVE
CRITERIA AND LIKE THE INDIANA
RESIDENTIAL VARIANCE.
SO YOU SEE THAT IN THE BOTTOM
OF THE STACK REPORT IS YOUR
STATE REPORT BOOL AND AN
EMOTION WORKSHEET NO
, JOHN.
YES.
DO YOU HAVE IS THIS CORRECT OR
IS THIS PRINTED WRONG?
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
OKAY.
THE FIRST LINE IN THE
POWERPOINT IS THE LOCATION MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW IN THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN YOU SEE
IT&apos;S AT THE INTERSECTION
OF BROADWAY AND WALL STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO AND YOU SEE THE
PARKING SPACES THAT I DESCRIBED
IN THE BACK, THE FIVE SPACES
BACK HERE AND THEN THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY WITH THE CONVENIENT
STORE AND THEY&apos;RE PARCEL THAT
KIND OF CIRCUMSTANCES AROUND
THE EXISTING SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SITE
PLAN.
YOU SEE IT THE ORIENTED WHAT
THE PARKING SPACES BACK HERE
AND PROPOSED OUTDOOR SEATING
AREAS AND SOME OF THE INTERNAL
COMPONENTS OF THE THE BUSINESS
THESE THE PHOTOS THAT THE
APPLICANT SUBMITTED WITH THEIR
APPLICATION SOME OF THE
EXTERIOR PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE
PROPERTY AND HOW IT CURRENTLY
EXISTS.
IT&apos;S THE REAR OF THE PROPERTY.
SOME OF THESE ARE THE INTERIOR
PHOTOS
.
THESE ARE MY PHOTOS THAT I TOOK
WHEN I MADE MY INSPECTION
OF THE PROPERTY.
YOU SEE EXISTING FIVE PARKING
SPACES AND SOME MORE PHOTOS
THAT I TOOK FROM THE EXTERIOR
OF THE BUILDING LOOKING DOWN
DOWN MORE STREET AND THE
SIDEWALK THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY
AND SOME OF THEIR OPEN SPACE IN
FRONT OF THE PROPERTY IN FRONT
OF THE BUILDING EXCUSE ME
LOOKING ACROSS THE STREET AT
SOME OF THE DEVELOPMENT ACROSS
THE STREET, EXISTING
DEVELOPMENT ACROSS THE STREET
AND THESE NEXT LINES WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE AFGHAN
CONCEPTUAL PHOTOS OF SOME
INTERIOR SPACE AND WHAT THEY
ARE PROPOSING TO THE FINISHED
PRODUCT TO LOOK LIKE AND AN
EXTERIOR RENDERING.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE FOR MY
PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS I JUST HAD IT&apos;S
NOT EVEN NECESSARILY RELATED TO
THE REDUCTION IN SPACES BUT I
THINK IT MIGHT AFFECT THE
REQUEST.
SO THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN
DOESN&apos;T SHOW ANY BARRIER FREE
SPACES BUT IT SEEMS LIKE JUST
BASED ON SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN POINT SEVEN OF THE UDC
THAT THEY WOULD HAVE TO BE IN
COMPLIANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE
REQUIREMENTS FOR THAT.
AND SO I THINK THAT MEANS THAT
THEY HAVE TO HAVE AT LEAST ONE
WITH THE ACCESS I&apos;LL DECIDE IT
.
SO I JUST YOU KNOW, DEPENDING
ON IF THAT&apos;S RELEVANT AND HOW
IT&apos;S ACCOMPLISHED, I GUESS IT
COULD AFFECT THE NUMBER
OF SPACES THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
YOU KNOW, SO THAT&apos;LL BE THEY&apos;LL
HAVE TO SUPPLY THAT AND SATISFY
THAT WHEN THEY SUBMIT THEIR
BUILDING PERMITS AND THE
BUILDING OFFICIALS WILL APPLY
THE ADA REQUIREMENTS DURING
THAT TIME.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, NO I TOO I UNDERSTAND
WE&apos;RE NOT HERE TO TO APPROVE A
SITE PLAN.
I JUST JUST GIVEN THAT THEY MAY
BE REQUIRED TO USE ONE OF THOSE
EXISTING PLACE, YOU KNOW, IT
WAS JUST SOMETHING THAT CROSSED
MY MIND AS I WAS LOOKING AT IT.
IT&apos;S A VERY GOOD POINT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN
AND I&apos;M FAMILIAR WITH THIS MY
SON USED TO BE A SHORT ORDER
COOK OVER THERE AT NORTH SIDE
GRILL AND I&apos;VE EATEN THERE MANY
TIMES AND PARKED YET THIS ONE
AND SOME OF THESE ADJACENT
SITES AND I KNOW THAT PARTY
STORE AND I&apos;VE TALKED TO JIM
CAWLEY, THE OWNER OF NORTHSIDE
GRILL A FEW TIMES WHO&apos;S HAD A
DESIRE TO ACQUIRE IT.
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS IT LOOKS LIKE
THE BUILDING THE PARTY STORE
BUILDING IS A SEPARATE PARCEL
FROM THE BIG PARKING LOT
ADJACENT TO IT.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT ACCURATE?
YEAH, ACCORDING TO OUR DESIRES
IT APPEARS THAT WAY.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT PROPERTY
OWNS BOTH PARCELS.
I THINK SO TOO.
BUT IT&apos;S JUST LOOKING LIKE
THERE&apos;S THE TWO PARCELS.
OK, THAT WAS JUST A SIMPLE
QUESTION I HAD TODD TO FURTHER
EMPHASIZE WHAT JOHN SAID.
I&apos;M VERY FAMILIAR WITH THIS
SPOT.
I HAVE MY BICYCLE&apos;S REPAIRED AT
SEAT TRANSIT WHEN THEY WERE IN
THIS SPACE IN THEIR NEW SPACE
AND BICYCLED AND WALKED AND
DRIVEN AND THE OLD BARBERSHOP
SPACE THIS CURRENT SPACE IS
BEING WORKED ON IS SEPARATE
FROM THE PARTY STORY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I KNOW.
AND I WOULD ALSO ADD THAT
PARKING IS REALLY TIGHT RIGHT
NOW AS IT IS BUT WE&apos;LL GET TO
THAT DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
I&apos;M PROBABLY LESS FAMILIAR WITH
THIS PART OF TOWN THAN OTHERS.
I&apos;M CURIOUS LIKE NORTH SIDE
DOES NORTH SIDE GRILL COMPLY
WITH THE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
FOR A SPACE LIKE THIS?
I YES.
OH YEAH I KNOW IT&apos;S LIKE GIRLS
LIKE WHITE FOLKS.
THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
I CAN&apos;T SEE IT THE NEXT TO A
COUPLE OF PROPERTIES OVER AND I
DIDN&apos;T LOOK BUT EVEN IF IT
DOESN&apos;T I&apos;M SURE THE NORTH SIDE
PARKING IS NOT GOOD FOR ME.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S BEEN THERE SO LONG.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S KIND OF WHAT I&apos;M
FIGURING.
LIKE I&apos;M I&apos;M JUST LOOKING AT
THIS PART OF TOWN AND THIS IS
LIKE MOST OF THE BUNCH
OF PEOPLE ARE JUST USED TO LIKE
WALKING TO DESTINATIONS HERE
AND LIKE TODD I&apos;VE TAKEN MY
BIKE TO GET REPAIRED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S LIKE YEAH I THINK
EVERYTHING IS PROBABLY
NONCONFORMING AND THAT AREA
OF TOWN YEAH IT WAS ALL
CONSTRUCTED SO LONG AGO AND
YOU&apos;VE GOT THE NEW STUFF ACROSS
THE STREET SO IT&apos;S KIND OF A
BLEND OF BOTH I BELIEVE WHAT
HAPPENED WITH THE OLD GAS
STATION THERE THE CITY OFFERED
KOELIE THE SOUTH PART OF THE
PART WHAT IS NOW IS PARKING
AREA BECAUSE TECHNICALLY IT WAS
A STREET AND WHEN IT GOT
REPAVED SORT OF CHANGED AND I&apos;M
NOT SURE HOW BUT I REMEMBER
SPEAKING WITH JIM KOELIE ABOUT
THAT AND IT ALLOWED HIM TO
BECOME CLOSER TO HIS
REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING.
BUT I BELIEVE IT&apos;S STILL A NON
CONFORMING SITUATION THERE.
BUT THAT&apos;S ALSO A SEPARATE
DISCUSSION.
IT&apos;S NOT A DISCUSSION HERE.
SO BUT IT SORT OF IS BECAUSE
THEY THIS SITE CAN USE SOME
OF THAT SPACE WHEN COAL IS
CLOSED BECAUSE THIS IS GOING TO
BE A PUB MORE I&apos;M IMAGINING
MORE OF AN EVENING SITUATION.
SO THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S SOME GIVE
AND TAKE ON THAT PARKING WILL
MORE THAN LIKELY HAPPEN.
I&apos;VE DISCUSSED THAT WITH THE
APPLICANT AND I THINK THEY
MIGHT TOUCH ON THAT WHEN THEY
COME TO THE PODIUM.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
DAVE, DID YOU HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION?
I WAS GOING TO MY FAMILIARITY
WITH THE SITUATION IS BEHIND
NORTH SIDE GRILL.
I MEAN IF YOU LOOK AT THE BIG
SECTION THERE&apos;S A PARCEL THERE
THAT&apos;S KIND OF ODD SHAPED THAT
IS ALONG BEYOND THE PONTIAC
TRAIL AND ON SWIFT AND THAT
ENTIRE THING GM ON THAT AND
THAT&apos;S ALL NORTH SIDE GRILL
PARKING AND THEN THE BUILDING
TO THE WHAT IS THAT NORTHWEST
WHERE&apos;S THE ON BROADWAY TO THE
NORTHEAST TOWARDS TRAVER AND
PLYMOUTH ROAD.
JIM ACQUIRED THAT BUILDING AND
HE USES THAT FOR PARKING AS
WELL SO THAT THERE&apos;S I&apos;VE
ALWAYS FOUND SUFFICIENT PARKING
THERE EVEN ON SUNDAY MORNINGS
BETWEEN ALL OF THOSE PASSES AND
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THEY&apos;RE THE
PARKING PROVIDED THOSE IS
DIRECTLY LINKED BY TO HIS
BUSINESS BUT HE OWNS THE
PROPERTY AND THAT&apos;S HOW HE USES
THAT PROPERTY IS FOR PARKING.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS READY, YOU
MAY PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD AND THEN YOU&apos;LL HAVE
FIVE NASCO OH OH OH
PLEASE.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
MY NAME IS PETER BAKER.
I&apos;M HERE WITH MY PARTNERS JOE
BOHLINGER WHO OCCUPIED THIS
BUILDING UNTIL LAST SUMMER AS
THE OWNER SIC TRANSIT CYCLONE
IS NOW STILL THRIVING ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE BLOCK IN THE
ST VINCENT DE PAUL BUILDING AND
OUR OTHER PARTNER HUBERT
RAGLAND WHO BOUGHT THE BUILDING
LAST SUMMER WHEN CITY TRANSIT
AS WELL AS AT LEAST ASIDE FROM
ANY STUDIO IN DETROIT WHOSE
ARCHITECT ON THE PROJECT HE DID
ALL THESE GREAT DRAWINGS FOR
THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY WAY
OF BACKGROUND REAL QUICK I&apos;VE
BEEN INVOLVED IN LOCAL
BUSINESSES AND ORGANIZATIONS
FOR FOUR DECADES ARBOR I
STARTED AS A CERTAIN ARTS AND
CRAFTS FESTIVAL EXPO WHICH IS
STILL GOING ABOUT TEN YEARS AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY BUT WE
STARTED THAT FESTIVAL AN AVANT
GUARD FILM NIGHT SERIES
OF POP-UP GALLERY SHOWS IN AN
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING A BROWN
COURT WHICH THEN BECAME BECAUSE
OF SOME OF THESE EVENTS BECAME
THE BAR AT BROWN COURT.
I HAD A PRESS STUDIO ON BEALE
IN THE BUILDING ON SOUTH STREET
ALONGSIDE A BUNCH
OF WOODWORKERS TOYMAKERS, SOME
ARBORISTS BEFORE THAT BECAME
THE APARTMENT BUILDING THAT IS
NOW I WAS WITH A SECURITY AS
HEAD OF DESIGN MARKETING EARLY
ON FROM THE SHARED OFFICE SPACE
WE HAD THE TEMPORARY BEFORE WE
MOVED DOWNTOWN AND I TO FOUR
BUILDINGS THERE THAT WE THAT WE
REHABBED THAT THAT ARE STILL IN
USE.
I ALSO WORKED WITH IVANOFF ON
FREEDOM OF TITOS AND DESIGN HER
INTERIOR AND BRAND AND ALL THAT
HAVE BEEN THE BOARD CHAIR
OF THE ANNENBERG CENTER FOR THE
PAST ABOUT SEVEN YEARS
INCLUDING DURING ITS EXPANSION
INTO THE NEW BUILDING.
IT IS UNDER RENOVATION RIGHT
NOW BY POINTING OUT MY POINT
SAYING ALL THIS IS THAT ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT ALL OF THESE
PLACES HAD IN COMMON THAT THEY
ALL BENEFITED FROM AND IN THE
CASE OF DUAL ACTUALLY FULLY
RECRUITED BASED ON THE
WALKABILITY AND PROXIMITY TO
OTHER BUSINESSES AND THE
DENSITY THAT CAME FROM THAT IN
ALL OF THE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
OPENING EXPANDING OR PLACING
THESE BUSINESSES, THE FOCUS ON
DOWNTOWN WAS INTENSE AND THAT
THERE WAS SIMPLY NO OTHER
COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR THAT
PROVIDED THE SAME NUMBER
OF NEARBY RESIDENTS AND
BUSINESSES AS WELL AS WITHOUT
BEING A PRIMARILY CAR DEPENDENT
AREA WHICH WAS A REALLY, REALLY
BIG FACTOR FOR EVERY ONE
OF THESE BUSINESSES.
SO THE THING ABOUT LOWERTOWN IS
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S VERY UNIQUE AS I
MENTIONED, IT&apos;S ONE OF THE IT&apos;S
THE OLDEST AREA OF ANN ARBOR
SIC TRANSIT OCCUPIES THE OLDEST
COMMERCIAL BUILDING IN ANN
ARBOR RIGHT NOW.
IT&apos;S PARTLY WHY THE BLOCK
WASN&apos;T BUILT TO ACCOMMODATE THE
KIND OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS
HERE.
IT WAS BUILT BEFORE BEFORE CARS
WERE A THING.
SO IT&apos;S SIMPLY CAN&apos;T COMPLY
WITH SOME OF THE MODERN ZONING
FOR THAT BLOCK THE PROPER
CENTER OF THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH IS PROBABLY WHERE THE
NAME COMES FROM LOWER TOWN
PROPER.
IT&apos;S SANDWICHED BETWEEN A LARGE
EMPLOYEE CENTER MICHIGAN
MEDICINE TO SIZABLE SINGLE
FAMILY HOME RESIDENTIAL AREAS
PLUS OVER FIFTEEN APARTMENTS
KITTY CORNER AND ACROSS THE THE
OTHER WAY AS WELL AS THE RIVER
PROJECT GOING IN AND A WHOLE
BUNCH OF RIVER ACTIVITIES WITH
AAGOT CASCADE&apos;S AND DELIVERY
THERE.
BUT AS CLOSE AS IT IS TO
DOWNTOWN THE PHYSICAL AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL BARRIER OF THE
BRIDGE ACTUALLY CREATES A LOT
OF SORT OF UNDERSERVED
OPPORTUNITY THE DISTANCE THE
OTHER DIRECTION THE STRIP MALLS
SORT OF UP ALONG NORTH CAMPUS
IS OVER A MILE AND A HALF LONG,
NOT A TERRIBLY PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY AREA.
SO IT&apos;S JUST SORT OF IT&apos;S A
VERY SEPARATED AREA THERE AND
WITHIN A HALF MILE OF THIS
BUILDING WE HAVE OVER ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY EIGHT UNITS
AT SHORELINE SIX HUNDRED AND
TWENTY GOING UP AT THE BEACON
AND SEVEN OTHER APARTMENT
COMPLEXES AROUND THERE THAT ADD
UP TO OVER FIFTEEN SIXTEEN
UNITS WITHIN A HALF A MILE
OF US NOT TO MENTION THE THE
PARKING NEARBY AS WELL AS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF ABOUT WE
ESTIMATED AT ABOUT THIRTEEN
THOUSAND WITHIN ONE MILE OF US
NOT GOING OVER THE RIVER JUST
IN THE OTHER DIRECTION AT ABOUT
TWENTY TWO THOUSAND EMPLOYEES
REGULARLY AT THE HOSPITAL JUST
YOU KNOW QUARTER MILE AWAY AS
FAR AS THE PARKING GOES
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET
THERE&apos;S THREE HUNDRED PUBLIC
UMESH PARKING SPOTS.
THERE&apos;S ANOTHER FOUR HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY EMPLOYEES SPACES THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF PONTIAC TRAILS
LINED WITH STREET PARKING.
WE HAVE SPOKEN WITH JIM AND WE
HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM
HIM, JIM FROM NORTH SIDE.
HE&apos;S JOE&apos;S LANDLORD SIC
TRANSIT.
HE&apos;S TOTALLY OPEN TO US USING
THE PARKING LOT.
WHAT YOUR SITE IS CLOSED?
THERE&apos;S NOT A LOT OVER THAT.
WE WILL HAVE A CAFE IN THE
MORNING.
NOT A TON OF TRAFFIC NEEDS
THAT.
THE OTHER THE OTHER FACTOR HERE
IS THE BROADWAY BRIDGE IS THE
CENTRAL ARTERY FOR ALL NON CAR
TRAFFIC WHICH IS ANOTHER ASPECT
OF THAT CYCLING WALKING ALL
FUNNELS THROUGH OUR FRONT DOOR
AND ACROSS THE BRIDGE AND WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT A SMALL BAR.
IT&apos;S A CREATIVE REUSE PROJECT
THAT&apos;S GOING TO ADD SOME REAL
CHARM TO THAT THAT CORNER IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT IT&apos;S A SMALL ONE LIKE YOU
KNOW, LIKE YOU SAID 50 60
PEOPLE ON A GOOD DAY.
SO THE GROUP BIKE RIDES MEETING
AT SIC TRANSIT EVERY WEEKEND
WITH CLOSE TO CAPACITY WHEN
THEY WHEN THEY FINISH UP LIKE
WE SIMPLY DON&apos;T HAVE THE
CAPACITY TO HANDLE MORE THAN A
TYPICAL AFTERNOON&apos;S CUP
OF COFFEE RUN.
SO WE WE REALLY WANT TO HELP
FOSTER A HIGHER DENSITY MIXED
USE AREA TO START ACHIEVING THE
GOALS OF THE TWO ZERO PROGRAM.
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE SIMPLY A
NEIGHBORHOOD CAFE AND BAR
SERVING THE NEIGHBORHOOD PEOPLE
WHO ARE ALREADY THERE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANKS THANKS.
YOU&apos;RE AT ALMOST SIX MINUTES
NOW SO YOU&apos;RE OVER BUT YOU CAN
YOU CAN MAKE IT REALLY THANKS
TO YOU.
YOU CAN SPEAK THE TECHNICALITY.
YEAH.
AND SO THANK YOU PETE FOR A
GREAT OVERVIEW DIVISION WHY WE
ALL AS A DESIGN TEAM AND THE
OWNERS TEAM FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S
HARMONY WITH THE SPIRIT OF BOTH
KIND OF THE ANN ARBOR ZONING
AND OVERALL DEVELOPMENT THAT&apos;S
HAPPENING IN LOWERTOWN RIGHT
NOW, ESPECIALLY ALL OF THE
THAT&apos;S HAPPENING ACROSS THE
STREET BUT JUST ALSO TO KIND
OF REPEAT GO BACK TO WHAT JOHN
WAS TALKING ABOUT AND WHAT SOME
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
ASKED HAVE BEEN ABOUT WHICH IS
THAT THIS SITUATION THAT WE ARE
REQUESTING THE VARIANCE FOR IS
UNIQUE TO LOWERTOWN RIGHT AS A
C3 FRINGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
IT&apos;S UNIQUE IN ITS FORM.
IT&apos;S BUILT MORE LIKE A HISTORIC
DOWNTOWN WHEREAS THAT DISTRICT
IS TYPICALLY STRIP MALLS AND
FREESTANDING RESTAURANTS,
THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND SO IT IS REALLY IT&apos;S NOT A
CONDITION IS EVEN UNIQUE TO THE
REUSE AS A CAFE AND BAR BUT IS
UNIQUE TO KIND OF ANY REUSE
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO PUT OR
THAT ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO PUT
THERE FOR REFERENCE IF IF A NEW
USE WERE TO TO USE ONLY THE
EXISTING FIVE SPOTS IT WOULD
HAVE TO BE IN USE WITH OVER TWO
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SQUARE FEET
PER SPOT WHICH IS AN EXTREMELY
LIMITED LIST RIGHT LIKE OFFICE
OFFICES AND YOU KNOW IT
OBVIATES A LOT OF POTENTIALLY
BENEFICIAL USES FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WILL REALLY
KIND OF CREATE A NEW DOWNTOWN
ATMOSPHERE THERE.
&gt;&gt; AND ALSO IT&apos;S A BAR AND CAFE
RIGHT?
SO WE THINK ABOUT RIDESHARING.
WE THINK ABOUT BIKING TO THAT
TO THE LOCATION.
WE&apos;RE PROVIDING AT LEAST 14
BIKE PARKING SPACES.
IT&apos;S A REALLY PROMOTING THAT AS
PART OF THE CULTURE OF THE
OF THE BUSINESS AND ALSO AS YOU
SAW ON THE SITE PLAN, WE REALLY
PLAN TO REDESIGN THAT FRONT
CORNER, REDO THE LANDSCAPING,
MAKE IT A KIND OF PUBLIC
AMENITY SPACE WHERE YOU COULD
TAKE OUT A CAFE, A COFFEE AND
SIT IN A NICE ADIRONDACK
CHAIRS, NICE LANDSCAPING AND
REALLY BRING A LOT OF LIFE TO
THAT CORNER THAT HAS BEEN EMPTY
FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS NOW AND
KIND OF UNDER UTILIZED.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
SORRY FOR GOING OVER.
THANK YOU ANDY.
YOU ARE WELCOME TO ANY
QUESTIONS QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER&apos;S.
OH YES.
I HAVE ONE QUESTION MR. BAKER
AND YOU PARTLY ANSWER THAT
BECAUSE MR. BALLINGER, THE
OWNER OF C TRANSIT CYCLES YOU
SAID IS HERE I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I&apos;LL TAKE YOUR WORD FOR IT.
I&apos;VE NEVER MET HIM OR MAYBE I
HAVEN&apos;T I HAVEN&apos;T EITHER.
SO I BROUGHT MY BIKES TO SEE
TRANSIT CYCLE AND A COUPLE
OF TIMES I HAD TO COME BACK
BECAUSE THE PARKING LOT WAS
FULL AND THE PROBLEM I HAVE YOU
OBVIOUSLY TALKED WITH HIS OWNER
BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW ABOUT NORTH
SIDE GRILL IS THERE&apos;S ALREADY A
SHORTAGE OF PARKING PLACES
THERE AND I AGREE THEY NEED
MORE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS HERE
BECAUSE OTHERWISE IT IS NOT ONE
SIDE GRILL YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT
ANGELO&apos;S BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW
THEY HAVE THE DIFFERENT OWNERS
THE PARTY STORE NORTH SIDE WILL
SEEK TRANSIT AND NOW YOUR
BUSINESS GOT A FIGHT OVER THE
ALL TOO FEW PARKING SPACES AND
THERE&apos;S SOME OTHER SPOTS WHERE
THE PARKING WAS SCREWED UP AND
I&apos;M THINKING OF A WHOLE FOODS
AT THE CORNER OF WASHINGTON
HERE WE GO THERE CERTAIN TIMES
AND THERE SIMPLY AREN&apos;T PARKING
SPACES.
SO I LIKE GETTING MY BIKES
THERE BUT IF IT&apos;S A ROUTINE
REPAIR AND I CAN&apos;T GET INTO
THERE, I&apos;M GOING TO GO
SOMEWHERE ELSE AND
REALISTICALLY I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
EAT THERE BECAUSE I&apos;M IN THE
NORTHEAST PART OF THE AND ARE
SO I HATE TO THROW A DAMPER ON
I THINK A BUSINESS THAT&apos;S
NEEDED NEW EATING PLACE LIKE
YOU&apos;VE GOT A OF A PARKING
PROBLEM AND MAYBE YOU NEED TO
BARBED WIRE FENCES BETWEEN THE
DIFFERENT OWNERSHIP.
GOT INVESTMENTS IN DENVER BOOTH
.
I&apos;M GOING TO BE AN UNHAPPY
CUSTOMER.
I CAN&apos;T GET MY BIKE.
YOU KNOW I GOT TO COME BACK.
YEAH, SURE, SURE.
I&apos;M BRINGING MY BIKE IN TO GET
REPAIR.
I&apos;M OBVIOUSLY TAKING CARE OF MY
CAR.
I COULD WALK BACK TO MY HOUSE
BUT I PREFER NOT.
SO YOU GOT A PROBLEM AND THAT&apos;S
GOING TO VOTE NO BUT AND I
UNDERSTAND BEING INVOLVED IN
QUIRT AND STUFF ARE ALL
WONDERFUL NETTLE&apos;S TO HAVE IN
YOUR CHEST AND THIS BUT YOU GOT
A PARKING PROBLEM SO THE
DIFFERENCE I WOULD SAY WITH
DROPPING A BIKE OFF FOR REPAIR
SIC TRANSIT IS YOU&apos;RE LEAVING
YOUR MODE OF TRANSPORTATION.
YOU NEED A WAY TO GET BACK.
THIS IS MORE OF A DESTINATION
PROCESS FOR YOU BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
ONLY SO MANY BIKE SHOPS AROUND
TOWN RIGHT NOW.
YOU PREFER THAT ONE AS I DO
TOO.
IT&apos;S AN EXCELLENT SHOW.
IT&apos;S GREAT BUT I KNOW WELL SO
SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF A FEW OPTIONS
FOR YOU THERE.
AND TO YOUR POINT ON IF THERE
IS NOT PARKING
FOR THIS CAFE
YOU&apos;LL GO SOMEWHERE ELSE.
WE&apos;RE COMFORTABLE AND READY FOR
THAT.
YOU KNOW WE CAN ONLY
ACCOMMODATE SO MANY PEOPLE WE
WILL BE AT CAPACITY IF SIMPLY
THE FIFTY PEOPLE OF THE
THIRTEEN THOUSAND THAT LIVE UP
THE STREET COME BY EVERY DAY.
SO WE WE ARE NOT EXPECTING ANY
FIGHTS OVER PARKING WE FRANKLY
CAN&apos;T HANDLE TOO MANY MORE
PEOPLE.
SO IF NORTH SIDE FILLS UP WITH
PARKING JUST FOR US WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
WE&apos;RE TAPPED OUT SO SO WE ARE
WE ARE LOOKING AT THIS IS NOT
SERVING AS A DESTINY BUT AS A
NEIGHBORHOOD SPOT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH.
YES.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL GET TO PUBLIC COMMENT
IN A MINUTE AND THEN YOU CAN
SPEAK OF THE OWNER.
&gt;&gt; HE&apos;S WON HIS APARTMENT.
YEAH.
LET&apos;S GIVE IT JUST A MINUTE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER RIGHT NOW?
&gt;&gt; OK, NOW I&apos;LL OPEN UP THE
PUBLIC HEARING IF THERE&apos;S
ANYONE ELSE HE WISHES TO SPEAK,
PLEASE COME FORWARD ALL RIGHT.
SO PLEASE HELP US AS WELL.
PLEASE PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD AND THEN YOU&apos;LL HAVE
THREE MINUTE HE&apos;S ISMIR.
I OWN THAT HOUSE AT SEVEN
TWENTY THREE MORE STREET WHICH
IS THEY&apos;VE TALKED A LOT ABOUT
ACROSS THE STREET.
I AM ACROSS THE STREET SO I
KNOW THIS PROPERTY IN THIS THIS
LOCATION REALLY WELL AND I
WOULD LOVE TO SEE IT
REVITALIZED.
LET ME START STATE THAT FIRST
BUT I&apos;M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
PARKING THERE ARE EIGHT PARKING
SPOTS ON MORE STREET.
THEY ARE TWENTY FOUR HOUR
SPOTS.
THERE IS NO RESIDENTIAL PERMIT
.
THE HOUSES ON WALL STREET DO
NOT NEED THESE SPOTS EXCEPT FOR
MINE.
MY HOUSE IS THE SEVENTH OLDEST
HOME IN ANN ARBOR.
IT DOES NOT HAVE A DRIVEWAY AND
IT HAS SIX RESIDENTS AND SO
THEY PARK IN FRONT OF THAT SPOT
AND THEY HAVE FOR THE TIME I&apos;VE
OWNED IT SINCE NINETEEN NINETY
EIGHT FOUGHT AGAINST THE PEOPLE
FROM THE HOSPITAL WHO ALSO PARK
IN THOSE SPOTS WHICH FILL UP
VERY QUICKLY IN THE MORNING AND
COME AND GO THROUGH THE DAY BUT
WE ARE FACING THE FACT THAT
PEOPLE DRIVE TO CAFES, THEY
DRIVE TO BARS AND YES IT IS A
WALKABLE AREA WITH GOOD
POPULATION DENSITY BUT A LOT
OF TIMES PEOPLE STILL TAKE
THEIR CAR TO GO GET THEIR
COFFEE OR THEY TAKE THEIR CAR
TO DRIVE THEIR FRIENDS TO THE
BAR.
SO I REALIZE IT&apos;S NOT THAT MANY
PEOPLE BUT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
SPILL OUT OF THE PARKING LOT
AND INTO THE EIGHT SPOTS ON
WALL STREET WHICH DOESN&apos;T SEEM
LIKE A BIG DEAL.
IT WILL BE A BIG DEAL TO MY SIX
RESIDENTS AND I&apos;D LIKE YOU TO
CONSIDER THAT IN GRANTING
OF PARKING VARIANTS THAT THAT
WILL GREATLY IMPACT THOSE
PEOPLE&apos;S LIVES.
IT WILL ALSO SPILL UP TREVER
WHICH HAS FOUR HOUR PARKING
WHICH EXPIRES AT SIX O&apos;CLOCK.
SO THAT WOULD BE FREE PARKING
FOR THAT AREA AS WELL AND IT&apos;S
FINE AS LONG AS MY RESIDENT CAN
FIND PARKING BUT THAT WILL GO
BACK BLOCKS AND BLOCKS AND
BLOCKS ACCORDING TO HOW BUSY
THE THE ESTABLISHMENT GETS.
SO THEY WILL BE PARKING FURTHER
AND FURTHER AND FURTHER AWAY
FROM THE HOUSE SINCE WE ARE THE
CORNER HOUSE OF TRAVERSE STREET
AND MORE STREET AND BEING NOW A
HISTORIC PROPERTY, I DON&apos;T KNOW
WHAT THE REQUIREMENTS ARE IN
TERMS OF MY MY ABILITY TO PUT
IN A DRIVEWAY BUT THAT SHIP MAY
HAVE SAILED NOW OWNED IT FOR
WELL OVER TWENTY YEARS AND
WE&apos;VE NEVER HAD A PROBLEM.
PERHAPS I HAVE TO STAND IN
FRONT OF YOU AND PLEAD MY CASE
FOR A DRIVEWAY AT SOME POINT IF
THIS WERE TO PROCEED I JUST
HOPE THAT THEY CAN COME UP WITH
A CREATIVE SOLUTION TO MAYBE
BUY SLOT SPOTS FROM FROM THE
SURROUNDING BUSINESSES OR FROM
THE THE APARTMENTS NEXT DOOR.
BUT THEY NEED TO SECURE THE
NUMBER OF SPOTS THAT WOULD
SATISFY THEIR CUSTOMERS AND
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE PROTECT
MORE STREET PARKING.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE WHO WISHES TO BUY AT
THE END OF ALL THE COMMENTS YOU
KNOW YES.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD AND THEN I&apos;LL HAVE THREE
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; MY NAME IS JOE BALLINGER.
I&apos;M THE OWNER OF SIX CREDIT
CYCLES WHICH IS ONE OF THE
NEARBY ADJACENT BUSINESSES AND
I&apos;D LIKE TO RESPOND TO TODD&apos;S
COMMENT EARLIER ABOUT THE
CONFLICT BETWEEN THE PARKING AT
LOWER TOWN PROPER AND THE
PARKING TO TRANSIT CYCLES AND
IT DOES SEEM LIKE THERE IS A
PARKING PROBLEM DOWN THERE.
BUT IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, I&apos;M DOWN
THERE EVERY DAY AND I SEE THE
WHOLE THING DEVELOPING THE
PARKING PROBLEM IS REALLY IT
SHORT LIVED.
IT&apos;S LIKE WHEN THE NORTH SIDE
GRILL IS AT ITS PEAK THAT IS A
PARKING PROBLEM THERE.
BUT THEN OUR SIDE GRILL WHEN
IT&apos;S AT ITS PEAK RIGHT ACROSS
THE STREET IS THIS LIKE THREE
HUNDRED SPACES LIKE PUBLIC
UNIVERSITY LOT THAT&apos;S SATURDAYS
AND SUNDAYS AND EVENINGS AS
WELL.
AND I ALSO DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT
WAS GOING TO BE A BIG PROBLEM
BECAUSE THERE&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE
A LOT OF OVERLAP AND HOURS
NOTICE.
I GREW UP CLOSE THE THREE
O&apos;CLOCK SIC TRANSIT CYCLES
CLOSES AT SIX CLOCK AND
PROBABLY LOWERTOWN PROPER WILL
NOT BE PEAKING UNTIL IN THE
EVENING AFTER SIX O&apos;CLOCK.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK THERE&apos;S GOING
TO BE A BIG CONFLICT BUT IT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT I&apos;VE TAKEN INTO
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU SO I THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ELSE HERE IN
PERSON WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
REGARDING THIS PETITION?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE IS ANYONE REMOTELY WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE CALL IN NOW
AND PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU&apos;RE
ACCESSING VIA THE WEB LINK,
PLEASE USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE AND STAFF WILL CALL ON
ALL ENDING AT FIVE THREE FOUR
YOU&apos;LL HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS TOM STALWART.
I LIVE IN LOWERTOWN ONE TWO
ZERO TWO TRAILER STREET WHICH
IS THE OLDEST SCHOOLHOUSE
BUILDING IN HANOVER.
MOTOWN&apos;S AMAZING PLACE.
IT IS THE HIGHEST CONCENTRATION
OF THE OLDEST HOMES AND
BUILDINGS IN ALL OF TOWN.
IT&apos;S AN AMAZINGLY WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS HERE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS, CONDO
BUILDING HOMES, DUPLEXES, LOTS
OF A RENTAL MARKET MORE
OCCUPIED AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; THE ANYBODY COMING FROM
ANYWHERE ELSE IS GOING TO HAVE
A HARD TIME FINDING A SPOT NOT
TO PARK BUT IN THE BAR THERE
ARE SO MANY PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN
SHORT WALKING DISTANCE TO THIS
.
I COULD GO ON AND ON ABOUT HOW
WONDERFUL THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
BUT I BET YOU DOWN TO THE TOWN
PROPER AFTER IT GETS GOING AND
WE CAN TALK HISTORY BECAUSE I&apos;M
AN AMATEUR HISTORIAN WE CAN
TALK TO REPLACE NEW THIS IS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BAR.
THAT&apos;S WHAT THIS IS GOING TO BE
ACROSS THE STREET THERE&apos;S A
LARGE DEVELOPMENT.
THEY&apos;RE PUTTING IN A THOUSAND
NEW RESIDENTS AND THEY&apos;VE ONLY
GOT EXCISES COMMERCIAL SPACE
OUT OF A CAMERA THAT&apos;S GOING TO
GO IN THAT BEEKMAN AREA.
IT&apos;S KIND OF A SHAME AND A
SHAM.
THEY USE THE PARKING TO GET
DOWN FROM LIKE AND THEY ASKED
FOR THEY&apos;RE GOING TO MAKE IT
WORK.
WE HAVE BROADWAY PARK WEST
THAT&apos;S GOING TO HAVE 100 CONDOS
AND A HOTEL JUST WALKING
DISTANCE RIGHT TO BROADWAY
BRIDGE.
WE&apos;VE GOT THE CASCADES.
WE GOT THE NEW TUNNEL SO PEOPLE
WALKING FROM MAIN STREET WILL
BE HAVE EASY ACCESS TO THIS AND
THEN THERE&apos;S ALL OF US ALREADY
HERE THAT WOULD LOVE TO JUST
STROLL DOWN THERE AND WALK DOWN
TO THE NORTH SIDE ROAD.
SO THIS IS A WALKABLE BUSINESS.
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE IN MY
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD, THE
RESIDENTS ON THE CORNER
OF MOORE AND RIVER I&apos;D LIKE TO
GET TO KNOW HIM.
BUT IF YOU LOOK IN YOUR POCKET
THERE&apos;S A BUNCH OF LETTERS FROM
PEOPLE WHO LIVE UPRIVER AND
WE&apos;RE REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
THIS.
WE DO HAVE FOUR HOUR PARKING
PERMIT SITUATION HERE, OUR
TRAILER AND MAYBE WE COULD GET
THAT GENTLEMAN AND NOW THE
PEOPLE ON WALL STREET TO BE
ADDED ON TO OUR PARK PROGRAM
AND MAYBE THE THE HOURS ON THE
PARKING PROGRAM CAN BE TINKERED
WITH AS WELL SO THAT IT
ACCOMMODATE THOSE RESIDENT.
THE IDEA IS NOT TO
INCONVENIENCE IMMEDIATE
RESIDENTS.
I HOPE THAT WE CAN WORK THAT
OUT AND JOE BOHLINGER HAS MY MY
NUMBER AND EMAIL REZENDE WANTS
TO WORK WITH OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
MY NEARBY RESIDENT MARY WHO SET
UP THAT PARK AND SHE WAS THE
ONE TO WORK WITH THE CITY TO
GET THE PARKING IN PLACE.
SHE&apos;S IN SUPPORT OF THIS
PROJECT AS WELL AND WROTE ME A
LETTER.
SO HOPEFULLY WE RESIDENTS ALL
WORK TOGETHER AND SOLVE THAT
ISSUE FOR THAT GENTLEMAN AND
HIS TENANTS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
AND SEVEN ONE NINE WE&apos;LL HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
ZEBO YOU CAN HEAR ME?
YES.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, I CAN HEAR YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU.
SO MY NAME IS BETHANIA AND MY
HUSBAND AND I AND OUR DAUGHTER
LIVE ON SEVEN OR THREE MORE
STREET SO THAT IS RIGHT DOWN
THE STREET FROM WHERE THE
PROPOSAL IS AND FOR THE DNA WE
100 PERCENT SUPPORT IT.
WE WERE VERY EXCITED WHEN WE
GOT THE INVITATION TO THIS
MEETING UNDER OUR DOOR.
WE THANK THE LORD AREA IS
ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC.
THERE&apos;S SO MUCH HISTORY HERE
COMPLETELY UNDER UTILIZED.
I&apos;M GOING TO ECHO EVERYTHING HE
SAID ABOUT THE TRAP FOOT
TRAFFIC THAT IS USED BECAUSE I
SEE EVERY SINGLE DAY THE PEOPLE
WALKING TO WORK.
I MYSELF AM A HOSPITAL WORKER
THAT WALKS TO WORK AND IN THE
SUMMER IT EQUALLY COULD BE
ANYWHERE.
WITH ALL THAT SAID WITH THE
PARKING I AGREE I WILL REPEAT
WHAT EVERYONE ELSE HAS SAID BUT
YOU KNOW IF WE EVER HAVE PEOPLE
OVER TO OUR HOME WE WANT THEM
TO USE THESE SITES IN FRONT
OF MORE AND IF THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
USE THAT FOR SOMEWHERE ELSE AND
THAT KIND OF TAKES AWAY AREA
FOR OUR FAMILY WHICH IS A BIT
OF AN INCONVENIENCE.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO THROW THIS
IDEA OUT THERE BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF ANYONE ANYWHERE BUT
THERE WAS A STUDY DONE THE
ANNENBERG LOWERTOWN AREA
MOBILITY STUDY AND IT&apos;S JUST
THAT REPORTED ON ABOUT FIVE
DAYS AGO AND IT WAS PLANNING IN
OILCAN GROUP AND WE PLAN TO GO
TO THE MEETING ON APRIL 20TH
TRANSPORTATION BUT THEY WANT TO
PUT AROUND ABOUT PONTIAC WITH
MORE IN LONGSHORE VERY NEED IT
VERY NEAT ESPECIALLY FOR
PEDESTRIANS SAFETY.
SO THAT&apos;LL BE NICE FOR THAT.
BUT THERE&apos;S BITTERING MORE
BEING A TWO WAY STREET BUT WE
STRONGLY FEEL IF YOU KEEP IT A
ONE AND THEN IT CAN SOMEHOW YOU
CAN SOMEHOW GET THEM TO DO
ANOTHER ROUND OF PARKING ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF MORE THAT WOULD
BE GREAT FOR BUSINESSES LIKE
THIS BECAUSE WE WANT THESE
BUSINESSES WE REALLY DO WHY WE
MOVED HERE.
SO I JUST WANTED TO LIKE THROW
THAT OUT THERE IF ANYONE ANYONE
IN THE TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
CONSIDER IT BECAUSE THAT WOULD
BE A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO ADD
MORE PARKING HERE IN ONE WAY
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD FOLK CAN BE
AFFECTED BY THE NEW BUSINESSES
COMING.
THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANK YOU
.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS.
THANK YOU, KRISTEN.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE RECEIVED
SEVERAL LETTERS OF SUPPORT FROM
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORS AT ONE 00
TO PONTIAC TRYAL NORTHAN ARBOR
15 20 TREVER ROAD 13 03 PEARL
STREET TWELVE TWENTY THREE
TRAVER TWENTY FOUR THIRTY FIVE
PRARIE STREET TWELVE NINETEEN
TREVER ROAD FIFTY EIGHT TRAVER
FOUR HUNDRED VIRGINIA AVENUE
AND ALSO FROM JIM KOELIE THE
OWNER OF BOGSIDE REAL COLA
ENTERPRISES LLC AND B. FTTH
LLC.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC IS CLOSED
AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION CHRIS
.
YEAH I USED TO BE A NEIGHBOR
MYSELF ONE ONE TWO THREE
PONTIAC TRAIL AND I KNOW THE
NEIGHBORHOOD INTIMATELY.
I KNOW WHAT THOSE PROBLEMS ARE
.
I HAD BEEN ATTEMPTING TO PUT A
PUB IN THE OLD GAS STATION.
I KNOW WHAT THE PARKING
VARIANCE NEEDS ARE.
I UNDERSTAND THIS.
I&apos;VE HEARD ALL OF I KNOW ALL
OF THE NUMBERS AND WITH THE
EXPANSION THAT&apos;S HAPPENING DOWN
IN THE OLD LOWERTOWN SPACE, YOU
KNOW, ALL IT DOES IS INCREASE
DENSITY AND IT&apos;S DARN TOOTIN
SHAME THERE HASN&apos;T BEEN A PUB
THERE FOR A WHILE.
I ALSO FEEL YOUR PAIN ABOUT
PARKING.
I LOST MY PARKING IN FRONT
OF MY HOUSE WHICH SEEMS SILLY
BECAUSE IF YOU WANT TO SLOW
DOWN TRAFFIC YOU PUT MORE
PARKING IN AND YOU KNOW WE
DIDN&apos;T NEED TO LOSE THAT
TRAFFIC OR THAT THAT PARKING I
WHOLEHEARTEDLY SUPPORT THIS.
I LOVE THE IDEA OF A ONE WAY
STREET THAT HAS ONE LANE AND
HAS PARKING ON BOTH SIDES
OF MOORE STREET.
THAT&apos;S A BRILLIANT IDEA.
I, I, I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE
A PUB IN LOWERTOWN.
I THINK THIS IS A THIS IS A
WONDERFUL THING AND I WILL BE
VOTING FOR THIS UM I HAVE A
QUESTION FOR OUR STAFF LOOKING
AT THIS MAP.
I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT FOR THIS
FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND BUT
THE ONE RESIDENT ON MOORE
STREET WHO DOESN&apos;T HAVE A
DRIVEWAY BECAUSE OF THE AGE
OF HIS HOME WHAT JOHN WHAT
WOULD THE POLICY BE?
I SEE A LITTLE NOTCH THERE ON
IT ON TRAVERS STREET ON THAT
PARCEL.
WOULD IT BE REALISTIC FOR HIM
TO BE ABLE TO PUT A DRIVE IN
THERE AT CITY CITY OWN RIGHT
AWAY?
NO.
RIGHT.
HOW ARE YOU LOOKING THIS?
YEP.
SO THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A LITTLE
SLICE OF SLIVER OF LAND NEXT TO
HIS PARCEL.
NO, HIS PARCEL IS NOT A
RECTANGLE.
SO THE CORNER THAT WOULD BE
TREVER IS KIND OF CUT OFF THERE
BUT IT STRIKES ME THAT THAT
COULD PROVIDE FRONTAGE FOR A
DRIVE COMING OFF A TRAILER INTO
HIS PERSON.
HE WOULD HAVE TO IF HE WANTED
TO DO THAT HE WOULD MAKE AN
APPLICATION FOR RIGHT AWAY
PERMIT AND GET IT REVIEWED
THROUGH OUR ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT.
BUT THAT COULD BE A POSSIBILITY
FOR HIM TO SOLVE THIS PROBLEMS.
I&apos;M NOT SAYING WE CAN GUARANTEE
ANYTHING BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A
POSSIBILITY HE HAS THE RIGHT TO
APPLY OR CONSULT WITH THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITY OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
AND IS THAT AN ADMINISTRATIVE
DECISION THAT THE MINISTRY IF
IT MEETS ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE ENGINEERING CODE FOR
DRIVEWAY AND A NEW THAT ALONG
THAT THAT BECAUSE HE HAS NO
DRIVEWAY AT ALL AND IT SEEMS
LIKE IT WOULD BE IN THE
INTEREST OF THE CITY TO ALLOW
HIM TO HAVE A DRIVE TO BRING
RESIDENT PARKING OFF AGAIN.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING BETWEEN HE&apos;D
HAVE TO CONSULT WITH
ENGINEERING.
OK, WELL I WOULD CERTAINLY
WRITE A LETTER IN SUPPORT
OF THAT.
BUT I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT
THERE&apos;S A BIG SIGNIFICANT
WEIGHT OF SUPPORT FOR THIS.
YOU KNOW, IS CONVINCING TO ME
ANOTHER ISSUE THAT&apos;S CONVINCING
TO ME IS I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW MANY
YEARS AGO THREE OR FOUR YEARS
AGO WE HAD A PARKING VARIANCE
FOR THE BIG DEVELOPMENT AT
MAIDEN LANE AND BROADWAY
THOUGHT THAT LOWERTOWN
DEVELOPMENT ACROSS THE STREET
THE BEAT ON BROADWAY YEAH.
ASKING FOR SIXTY SPACES A
VARIANCE WHICH I CHARACTERIZED
AT THE TIME AS A THREE MILLION
DOLLAR FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS A
SPACE GIVEAWAY TO THE DEVELOPER
BY GRANTING VARIANCE I VOTED
AGAINST THE VARIANCE THE
VARIANCE PASSED SO BASICALLY AS
A PUBLIC POLICY WE GAVE THAT
DEVELOPER A THREE MILLION
DOLLAR VARIANCE BY MY ANALYSIS
WHEN THEY WERE ALREADY BUILDING
A PARKING STRUCTURE THEY COULD
HAVE EASILY ADDED MORE SPACES
WITH ANOTHER FLOOR AND A SCOPE
OF THAT DEVELOPMENT COULD HAVE
EASILY SUSTAINED AND AMORTIZED
THE COST OF THOSE SPACES OVER
THE ENTIRE DEVELOPMENT.
I VOTED AGAINST THAT VARIANCE
BUT THIS BOARD IN ITS WISDOM BY
A SLIM MAJORITY GAVE THAT
VARIANCE.
NOW THIS SMALL PROPERTY OWNER
AND SMALL BUSINESS CONCEPT
COMES IN ASKING FOR WHAT I
WOULD CHARACTERIZE AS A MODEST
VARIANCE TO BRING SOMETHING
THAT WOULD BE AN ASSET NOT ONLY
TO THE IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD
BUT AN ASSET TO THE CITY IN
THIS CASE I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE FOR
THE VARIANCE BUT I JUST WANT TO
MAKE CLEAR THAT THIS BOARD IN
ITS WISDOM GAVE THAT THREE
MILLION DOLLAR VARIANCE IN THE
SAME NEIGHBORHOOD TO GIVE AWAY
NOT REQUIRE SIXTY SPACES
OF THIS MAJOR DEVELOPER.
NOW I THINK IT&apos;S INCUMBENT ON
US IN THE INTERESTS
OF SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESS
PEOPLE THAT WE SUPPORT THIS
VARIANCE OF SUPPORT THAT BUT
YES, I ALSO AS USUAL DAVID DEED
HAS DONE EXCELLENT COMMENTS AND
I TOO VOTED AGAINST THE
VARIANCE FOR THE LARGER
DEVELOPMENT AND I THOUGHT IT
WAS A MISTAKE AT THE TIME BUT
DAVE AND I DID NOT WIN THAT
DECISION GETTING THE POINT HERE
I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE FOR THIS.
MY INITIAL CONCERN WAS THAT MR
BAKER HAD COME IN WITHOUT
CONSULTING WITH THE OTHER
OWNERS BUT OBVIOUSLY THE
PRESENCE OF MR BOHLINGER AND
MURIS THAT OBJECTION AND I
THINK THERE&apos;S AN OVERWHELMING
NEED FOR A FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
HERE.
WE&apos;VE FORGOTTEN ABOUT CASES
OF COURSE IT&apos;S A WALK OVER THE
BRIDGE BUT THERE&apos;S ANGELO&apos;S
SIDE GRILL.
THERE&apos;S MORE FOOD
ESTABLISHMENTS NEEDED HERE AND
I DON&apos;T WANT TO PUT A DAMPER ON
WHAT I THINK WILL BE A VERY
NICE BUSINESS SOMETHING THAT I
COULD BICYCLE TO BUT I THINK
THEY ARE MR BAKER DOES
UNDERSTAND THEY DO HAVE A TIGHT
SITUATION.
I APPRECIATE MR BALLINGER&apos;S
COMMENTS THE NEXT TIME I
SCHEDULE A PLANE BUT IT WON&apos;T
BE DURING LUNCH AND EVERYBODY&apos;S
A NICE GUY BUT I&apos;M GOING TO
VOTE FOR IT AND I ALSO
APPRECIATE CHRISTOPHER LEE&apos;S
COMMENT THAT IT IS THIS IS A
NEED FOR THIS PART OF TOWN.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO MAKE THE
PROJECT DIFFICULT BY VOTING
AGAINST THE PARTY DURING THIS I
WILL BE SUPPORTING I&apos;M HAPPY TO
SUPPORT THIS.
I THINK SOME OF THE
CONVERSATIONS WE&apos;RE HAVING
AROUND ADDING A USE TO AN AREA
WHERE THERE ARE ALREADY PINCH
POINTS WITH PARKING WE HAVE
SOLUTIONS FOR THAT AND AND I&apos;VE
HEARD THESE ARGUMENTS BEFORE
AND QUITE OFTEN THEY DON&apos;T COME
TO FRUITION.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;LL HAVE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT FEARS THAT
THE NEIGHBORS HAVE ABOUT LOSING
ON STREET PARKING AND THE
ANXIETY AROUND THAT AND WE TALK
ABOUT A POTENTIAL SOLUTION
ABOUT RESIDENTIAL PERMITS AND
YOU KNOW, ULTIMATELY IT&apos;S JUST
NOT AS BIG A DEAL AND THE IDEA
OF THIS PARKING NOT BEING
ADEQUATE OR BEING THERE NOT
BEING FOR PEOPLE NOT GOING
THERE BECAUSE THE PARKING LOT
IS FULL WELL, I MEAN THAT&apos;S
KIND OF A GOOD PROBLEM
PARTICULARLY WHEN IT&apos;S SO CLOSE
TO SO MUCH RESIDENTIAL AND
PEOPLE WHO CAN WALK TO IT.
I MEAN IF PEOPLE ARE DETERRED
FROM COMING HERE BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S NOT A PARKING SPOT
THAT&apos;S KIND OF OK WITH ME.
I THINK THE SORT OF THE BIGGER
TRAGEDY IS ACRES AND ACRES
OF PARKING LOT THAT ARE EMPTY A
LOT LIKE WHEN
YOU GO TO A PLACE
AND YOU&apos;RE CONFIDENT YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO FIND A SPOT THAT MEANS
WE&apos;VE GOT A LOT OF EXTRA
PAVEMENT THAT&apos;S JUST SITTING
AROUND AND EMPTY ALL THE TIME
AND THAT&apos;S NOT GREAT.
SO I&apos;M REALLY HAPPY FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THEY&apos;RE
GETTING THIS.
AMANDA, I&apos;VE GOT TO HANDFUL
OF PLACES THAT ARE LIKE
WALKABLE TO MY HOUSE THAT ARE
LIKE THIS AND I JUST LOVE IT
AND I THINK MORE NEIGHBORHOODS
AND TOWNS SHOULD HAVE PLACES
LIKE THIS NEARBY.
THANKS, CHRIS.
SO I JUST REALLY WANT QUICK WE
WANT TO CIRCLE BACK TO WHY I
BROUGHT UP THE BARRIER FREE
THING AND I&apos;LL JUST PROCESS BY
SAYING I SUPPORT THE VARIANCE.
MY CONCERN WAS IS THAT STRICT
COMPLIANCE WITH THE ADA
REQUIREMENT IS GOING TO REQUIRE
AN EIGHT FOOT STRIPED AREA FOR
YOUR FIRST ADA SPOT AND ONE IS
ALL YOU&apos;RE GOING TO NEED.
SO MY CONCERN WAS THAT YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE TO USE ONE
OF THOSE EXISTING SPACES FOR
THAT STRIPED AREA WHEN YOU GET
TO THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT
REVIEW AND SO YOUR REQUEST
MIGHT NOT ACTUALLY BE ADEQUATE
.
YOU MIGHT NEED A VARIANCE
OF ONE MORE SPOT.
SO THAT&apos;S WHY I BROUGHT IT UP.
BUT THAT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT
THERE ISN&apos;T A SOLUTION TO IT.
YOU KNOW, YOU MAY BE ABLE TO
ADD IT AT THE OTHER END WHERE
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE&apos;S SPACE
THAT MAY BE IN COMPLIANCE AND
THEY WON&apos;T COME UP AT ALL.
BUT I JUST YOU KNOW, I THINK
THE VARIANCE IS FINE,
ACCEPTABLE AND MODEST AND
PARKING IN A PUBLIC PLACE
ACROSS THE STREET OR AROUND THE
CORNER OR WHATEVER IS NOT AN
ISSUE FOR A LOT OF US BUT
OBVIOUSLY FOR PEOPLE WITH
MOBILITY ISSUES THAT ISN&apos;T
ALWAYS AN OPTION AND SO JUST
CAREFUL TO TO MAKE SURE YOU GET
IT IN THERE WHEN YOU SUBMIT IT
FOR REVIEW BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
OBVIOUSLY WE WANT EVERYONE WE
CAN TO BE ABLE TO COME.
SO UM BUT YEAH, I THINK IT IS A
GREAT ADDITION AND I SUPPORT IT
.
QUICK ADDENDUM AND I DON&apos;T WANT
TO TALK OUT OF SCHOOL HERE AS A
ZIBA MEMBER WHO IS OFFERING
ADVICE BUT IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
THERE MIGHT BE A DISCUSSION SIR
WITH 88 ABOUT REPOSITIONING THE
SPOT THAT&apos;S RIGHT IN FRONT
OF YOUR HOUSE BECAUSE THAT&apos;S
PROBABLY TWO SPOTS AT LEAST
WORTH OF SPACE THAT COULD BE
PARKING.
THEY HAVE TO STOP AT THE TOP
OF THE HILL ANYWAY.
AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S I THINK THAT
STILL PUTS THEM WITHIN THE
DIMENSIONS OF THEIR STOP
SPACING THAT WOULD BE VALID AND
THAT MIGHT BE A DISCUSSION ALSO
JUST ANOTHER METHODOLOGY
OF INCREASING ON STREET PARKING
.
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S A
STOP RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM NORTH SIDE THE FRONT DOOR
OF NORTH SIDE GRILLE.
THERE&apos;S ANOTHER STOP AT BOLAND
AND PONTIAC TRAIL.
SO YOU KNOW THAT SPOT I DON&apos;T
KNOW HOW MUCH TRAFFIC AT THAT
THAT STOP GETS BUT IT MIGHT BE
A DISCUSSION WITH THE MTA.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S A GOOD IDEA.
I THINK THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
REALLY THE ONLY WAY THAT WILL
PRESERVE THOSE SPOTS FOR PEOPLE
IN THE HOUSE THAT THAT HAS IT
COMES THE PANDORA&apos;S BOX.
I COULD I&apos;M READY FOR EMOTION
IF YOU LIKE.
I THINK YEAH.
I THINK WE&apos;RE GOING ZIBA TWENTY
TWO DASH DOUBLE OH SEVEN ONE 03
ONE BROADWAY STREET BASED ON
THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS OF FIVE PARKING SPACE
VARIANCE FROM CHAPTER FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TABLE
FIVE POINT NINETEEN ONE OFF
STREET PARKING THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING TO CONVERT AN EXISTING
VACANT BUSINESS TO A BAR AND
CAFE.
THE PROPERTY REQUIRES FOURTEEN
PARKING SPACES.
THIS RENOVATION REQUIRES A NINE
NINE PARKING SPACE VARIANCE SO
I WANT TO PUT NINE.
THAT&apos;S A TYPO.
SORRY YEAH I&apos;M SORRY THERE WAS
A TYPO HERE IS THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A NINE
PARKING SPACE VARIANCE FROM
CHAPTER 55 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TABLE FIVE POINT NINETEEN
DASH ONE OFF STREET PARKING.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING TO
CONVERT AN EXISTING VACANT
BUSINESS TO A BAR AND CAFE.
THE PROPERTY REQUIRES FOURTEEN
PARKING SPACES.
THIS RENOVATION REQUIRES A NINE
PARKING SPACE VARIANCE MOTION
TO SUPPORT SQUARE.
THANK YOU.
COULD TOUCH YES ELIZABETH YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES MCDANIEL YES
DAVE DIVERSITY.
DIVERSITY YES.
CHRIS BAILEY VERY MUCH SO YES.
&gt;&gt; THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING PETITIONS TWENTY TWO
DASH ONE ZERO ZERO EIGHT
THIRTEEN HUNDRED SOUTH MAPLE
ROAD JOHN ACTUALLY THAT WAS THE
PLANNER FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THIS IS HIS SITE PLAN PROJECT
AND HE&apos;S GOING TO BE PRESENTING
THE MATERIALS FOR THIS CASE
THIS EVENING AT CRIMINAL GANGS
MANKOWSKI CITY PLANNER.
SO I WILL BE I THINK JOHN BERRY
IF YOU CAN PULL UP THE BRIEF
SLIDE SHOW, WE&apos;LL GIVE YOU GUYS
A LITTLE BIT OF A BACKGROUND.
THERE YOU GO.
OK, THROUGH THIS.
OK, OK SO AGAIN ONCE BEFORE YOU
CAN I GIVE YOU A CASE POINT YOU
JUST USE A GREAT GRACE BIBLE
CHURCH.
YOU CAN SEE IT OUTLINED BY THE
YELLOW HERE ON THE SCREEN IN
THE SUBJECT PROPERTIES DON&apos;T
THE ADJACENT TO INTERSTATE 94
TO THE WEST AS WELL OBVIOUSLY
MAPLE ROAD WHICH IT FRONTS AND
CLOSE TO THE INTERSECTION
OF PAULENE WE CAN GO TO THE
NEXT SLIDE WHICH IS JUST YEP.
JUST AN AERIAL SHOWING THAT THE
SUBJECT LOCATION AGAIN YOU CAN
SEE IN RELATION TO THE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES NEXT
PLEASE.
SO OK BUT WE GET A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER IN HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN NEXT PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; SO REALLY THIS IS KIND
OF HOW THE EXISTING SITE IS
ULTIMATELY AND WE&apos;LL GET ONE
OF THE NEXT SLIDES THAT WILL
EVENTUALLY SHOW WHAT IS
PROPOSED AND THE REASON WHY
THEY&apos;RE HERE BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
AGAIN.
SO WE&apos;LL GET TO THAT.
SO IF WE CAN SEE A COUPLE
SUBJECT SITES JUST TO PHOTOS
NEXT WE CAN GET YOU
REFAMILIARIZE WITH THE LOCATION
STILL WORKING ON NEXT PLEASE.
OK, HERE&apos;S I&apos;M LOOKING DIRECTLY
AT THE AT THE GREASED BY THE
CHURCH TO THE LEFT ON THIS
PICTURE IS THE AREA WHERE THE
NEW MULTIPURPOSE BUILDING WILL
BE CONSTRUCTED NEXT.
PLEASE.
SO THIS IS TO THE REAR OF THE
OF THE BUILDING OF GREECE.
I WAS KIND OF LOOKING TOWARDS
INTERSTATE 94 THERE AND AGAIN
KIND OF TO THE LEFT IS ANOTHER
EXISTING PARKING AREA KIND UP
THE HILL AS WELL AS THE
EXISTING CHURCH.
&gt;&gt; NEXT SLIDE, PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; AND YOU LOOK DIRECTLY IN THE
BACK OF THE EXISTING CHURCH TO
THE RIGHT AGAIN IS WHERE A NEW
PARKING OUT IS PROPOSED AS WELL
AS A NEW MULTI-PURPOSE
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; NEXT, PLEASE.
OK, LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
AREA WHERE THE NEW BUILDING
WILL BE AS WELL AS A NEW
PARKING LOT NEXT PLEASE.
I THINK THAT GETS US HERE WE
GO.
OK, SO THIS GETS US TO THE
SUBJECT TO WHAT IS PROPOSED AND
WHY WHY THEY ARE HERE BEFORE
YOU TONIGHT.
SO OBVIOUSLY I&apos;M SURE MANY YOU
ARE FAMILIAR AT LEAST I KNOW
THERE&apos;S ONE NEW BOARD MEMBER.
HOWEVER, THIS CASE AS YOU GUYS
WOULD REMEMBER IT WAS BEFORE
YOU BACK IN SEPTEMBER OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE ALSO REQUESTING A
VARIANCE FROM EVE PARKING WHICH
IS WHY THEY&apos;RE HERE.
IT&apos;S I SHOULD BACK UP A LITTLE
BIT.
THEY ARE HERE TONIGHT
REQUESTING A VARIANCE FROM THE
EDI WHICH IS THE ELECTRICAL
VEHICLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
THIS THE A SIMILAR PROPOSAL WAS
BEFORE YOU IN SEPTEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE THAT WAS
ALSO BASED ON THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN THAT YOU SEE HERE AT THAT
TIME THE PETITIONER WAS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF SEVENTY SPACES TO PROVIDE
TEN ON SITE THAT WAS DENIED BY
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SINCE THAT TIME.
SO THE PETITIONER HAD MODIFIED
THE PLAN TO BE CALLED COMPLIANT
AND THEY DID ULTIMATELY GET
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL FOR A NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
SO THE SITE PLAN IS CURRENTLY
APPROVED.
SO THAT BRINGS US TO TONIGHT
THE SO ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS
TO I WANTED TO POINT OUT TO THE
BOARD WHICH IS INCLUDED IN YOUR
THAT REPORT IS THE KIND OF THE
CONDITION FOR REHEARING.
SO OBVIOUSLY THIS AS I SAID,
THIS IS A REHEARING SO I JUST
WANT TO I&apos;M GOING TO READ THIS
ALOUD AGAIN FROM MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC AS WELL AS THE COURT.
SO BASICALLY THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE WHICH IS OUR
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE INCLUDING
THE ZONING OF COURSE STATES
THAT AN APPLICATION FOR
REHEARING SHALL BE MADE IN THE
SAME MANNER AS AN ORIGINAL
HEARING.
THE APPLICATION FOR REHEARING
SHALL BE DENIED BY IT IF THE
APPLICANT IS UNABLE TO PRESENT
EVIDENCE TO SHOW THAT THERE HAS
BEEN A SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE IN
FACTS CIRCUMSTANCE OR SCOPE OR
NATURE OF RELIEF REQUESTED.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN SO THAT&apos;S KIND
OF REALLY A FIRST STEP AT THE
ZIBA KIND OF NEED TO TAKE IS
WHETHER OR NOT CIRCUMSTANCES
HAVE CHANGED INTO KIND
OF AUTHORIZE THE REHEARING HERE
THAT GO THROUGH AND OBVIOUSLY
TO DECIDE ON THE MOTION OF THE
VARIANCE FOR YOU TONIGHT.
SO TO THAT EFFECT IS WHAT THE
PETITIONER IS REQUESTING
TONIGHT.
AS I SAID PREVIOUSLY, THEY WERE
REQUESTING A VARIANCE OF 70
PARKING SPACES TO PROVIDE TEN
ON SITE.
SO WHAT THEY SEVERELY REDUCED
THE SCOPE OF THAT REQUEST.
THEY ARE NOT REQUESTING A
VARIANCE OF FORTY THREE
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE PARKING
SPACES WHICH MEANS THAT THEY
WOULD PROVIDE THIRTY SEVEN ON
SITE.
SO AGAIN WHAT THE COURT
CURRENTLY REQUIRES IS THAT THE
AMOUNT OF ELECTRICAL PARKING IS
BASED ON THE TOTAL AMOUNT
OF REQUIRED PARKING FOR A SITE.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST BASED ON ANY NEW
PARKING AREA AS
PART OF THE
PROPOSED OFF THE SITE FIND THAT
WAS APPROVED YOU CAN SEE KIND
OF IN A DARKER GRAY AREA ON THE
SCREEN HERE THAT PARKING LOT IS
IS NEW THAT DARKER AREA THAT&apos;S
SHADED WITH THE PARKING LOT
THAT IS A TWO HUNDRED AND SEVEN
SPACE PARKING LOT.
SO HOWEVER, WHAT THE AGAIN WHAT
THE CODE STATES RIGHT NOW IS
THAT THE YOU HAVE PARKING
RATIOS ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE
TOTAL AMOUNT REQUIRED, NOT JUST
THE NEW PARKING THAT&apos;S BEING
PROVIDED.
SO AGAIN WHAT THEY HAVE IS HOW
THE PETITIONER HAS BASED THIS
VARIANCE REQUEST IS KIND
OF BASING USING OUR STANDARDS
TO BASED ON WHAT IS THE NEW
PARKING THAT THEY&apos;RE PROVIDED.
SO THEY&apos;RE BASICALLY TAKING A
RATIO AND APPLYING IT TO THE
NEW 207 SPACE PARKING LOT AND
NOT THE OVERALL REQUIRED AMOUNT
OF PARKING THAT IS PROVIDED ON
THE SITE.
SO WHAT THAT RESULTS AND AGAIN
WOULD BE WHETHER THE REQUESTING
A VARIANCE OF FORTY THREE
SPACES THEY WOULD INSTALL
THIRTY SEVEN ON SITE HOW THAT
WOULD BE BROKEN OUT WOULD BE IN
THE WE DOUBLE CHECK MY ID SEVEN
SITES IT IS THE WOULD PROPOSE
HAVE SEVEN EVEN INSTALL SPACES
SO WHAT THAT MEANS AGAIN THAT
OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;VE INSTALLED WITH
THE CHARGING STATION FULLY
INSTALLED SO YOU JUST PULL UP
YOUR CARD AND YOU CAN PLUG
DIRECTLY IN AND THIRTY EVEN
CAPABLE SPACES THOSE ARE THE
ONES THAT DO NOT HAVE THE
STATION OR THE WIRES TO THE
SITE HOWEVER THEY THEY&apos;RE IT&apos;S
PROPERLY SET UP FOR THE FUTURE
SO THAT WHEN THAT WHEN THE NEED
ARISES HOPEFULLY SOON ENOUGH
THEN THEY&apos;RE ABLE TO INSTALL IT
WITH MINIMAL WITH MINIMAL
DISTURBANCE TO THE EXISTING
PARKING LOT OR ANY OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE ON SITE.
SO THERE WOULD BE SEVEN THAT
WOULD BE INSTALLED THAT WOULD
BE READY TO GO AND THIRTY THAT
WOULD BE CAPABLE SPACES SET UP
FOR KIND OF FUTURE INSTALLATION
AND THAT REALLY CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AT THIS TIME AND I
AM CERTAINLY AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO I HAVE A QUICK QUESTION SO I
UNDERSTAND THAT THE CITY IS
CURRENTLY WORKING ON SOME
PARKING AMENDMENTS AND THOSE
WERE DISCUSSED WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AT A
WORKING SESSION I THINK TWO
WEEKS AGO AND INCLUDED IN THOSE
PARKING AMENDMENTS ARE SOME
MODIFICATIONS TO THE EV PARKING
REQUIREMENTS WHICH I THINK
CLARIFIES THAT EV PARKING IS
APPLIED ONLY TO NEW SPACES, NOT
TOTAL SPACES.
AND THERE&apos;S ALSO SOME
ELIMINATION GENERALLY OF ONE
OF THE EV CATEGORIES.
SO MY QUESTION FOR YOU I GUESS
SINCE SINCE I KNOW THAT&apos;S IN
THE WORKS AND I KNOW THAT I
THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
ON APRIL 5TH IF I REMEMBER
CORRECTLY HOW HOW CLOSELY I
GUESS DOES THIS PETITION COMPLY
WITH THE REQUIREMENTS AS STATED
IN THOSE NEW THOSE NEW
STANDARDS LIKE IF IF THOSE WERE
APPROVED NOW WOULD THIS NOT
NEED A VARIANCE OR WOULD THEY
STILL BE OFF FROM THAT?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M CURIOUS.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO I&apos;LL JUST GIVE A REALLY
BRIEF BACKGROUND HERE BUT I&apos;LL
GET A VERY GOOD JOB OF KIND
OF SUMMARIZING THIS UP.
BUT SO BASICALLY WHAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS WAS HAS
BEEN LOOKING AT ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE AND AS
CHEMISTS THAT IS SCHEDULED FOR
A PUBLIC HEARING A PLANNING
COMMISSION NEXT.
WELL I GUESS IN TWO WEEKS
THERE&apos;S LOTS OF REVISIONS TO
THE PARKING CODE IN GENERAL BUT
THE ONE THAT&apos;S MOST RELEVANT TO
THIS WOULD BE THAT THERE THE
PROPOSALS THAT BEFORE PLANNING
COMMISSION WOULD BE TO BASE THE
NUMBER OF EV PARKING SPACES
BASED JUST ON A NEW PARKING
PROVIDED SO NOT ON THE TOTAL
AMOUNT OF REQUIRED PARKING.
SO WHAT THAT WOULD AND ALSO
AGAIN AS WAS INDICATED THEY
WOULD LIMIT IN YOUR CATEGORY
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE THREE
CATEGORIES CAPABLE OF READY AND
EVEN INSTALL THE NEW WE WOULD
HAVE ABOUT ELIMINATE THE EVA
THE EVA RANEY&apos;S BASIS.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S JUST GOING TO SAY
THAT EVA INSTALL AND EIGHTY
CAPABLE.
SO REALLY THE TWO CATEGORIES
OF WHAT THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING HERE
AND ACTUALLY EERILY THEY&apos;RE
THEY&apos;RE VERY SIMILAR.
WHAT THEY ARE PROPOSING IS TO
REMIND YOU WOULD BE 30 EVC
SPACES AND SEVEN EVA INSTALL
WHAT THE NEW CODE WOULD REQUIRE
WOULD 33 SPACES AND SIX EVA
INSTALLED.
&gt;&gt; SO THEY&apos;RE ACTUALLY THEY&apos;RE
PROVIDING ONE MORE INSTALL
SPACES THAN WOULD BE REQUIRED
AND THEN THERE&apos;D BE TWO SPACES
THAT WOULD FOR THE EVA CAPABLE.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER I THINK THAT AND
AGAIN IT&apos;S KIND OF SIMILAR I
WASN&apos;T SURE IF THEY&apos;RE IN THE
BACKGROUND OF OUR DECISION
MAKING PROCESS OR THESE NUMBERS
SEEM TO MIRROR WHAT&apos;S ACTUALLY
BEING PROPOSED.
I THINK GIVEN THAT THERE&apos;S THAT
ERROR THE CAPITAL COUPLE SPACE
IS WHAT THAT IS BECAUSE I&apos;M
SURE IT&apos;S DUE TO A ROUNDING
ERROR.
BOTH OF THESE LIKE FOR INSTANCE
THE CAPABLE SPACE HAS COME UP.
IT&apos;S THIRTY TWO POINT ONE
OBVIOUSLY IN MOST CASES AS
WE&apos;VE LEARNED YOU ROUND DOWN
THE THIRTY TWO BUT WE DO NOT DO
THAT FOR PARKING SPACES WE
ROUND UP.
SO THAT&apos;S KIND OF REALLY THAT
WHERE THIS DIFFERENCE IS COMING
UP WHERE I SAY THERE ARE THIRTY
THREE REQUIRED IS THE THIRTY
TWO POINT ONE TO ROUNDED UP
EVEN IF IT&apos;S A TENTH OF A
PERCENT SO THEY ARE VERY CLOSE
TO PROVIDING ONE MORE INSTALLED
SPACE THREE LESS THREE LESS
CAPABLE SPACES BUT AGAIN REALLY
ONLY TWO LESS THAN WHAT WOULD
BE REQUIRED IF WE WOULD BASED
ON NEW STANDARDS SORRY IF THE
NEW STANDARDS ARE APPROVED ON
THIS PART.
SO THERE&apos;S TWO CAPABLE SPACES
THAT THEY ARE PROPOSING ON THE
OTHER SIDE.
WHAT I WILL KNOW THAT OBVIOUSLY
THE PARKING REQUIREMENTS AS WE
SAY THEY&apos;RE GOING FORWARD THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THIS IS AN
ORDINANCE CHANGED THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS ONLY RECOMMENDING
BODY WELL IT SEEMS LIKE THERE
IS SUPPORT FROM PLANNING
COMMISSION BASED ON OUR
DISCUSSIONS AT THE NRC WHICH IS
THE ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE AS WELL AS THE
GENERAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
THIS DOES HAVE THE
CODE REVISION DOES NEED TO BE
APPROVED ULTIMATELY BY CITY
COUNCIL THAT WILL PROBABLY BE
SCHEDULED WITHIN A COUPLE
OF MONTHS.
SO PLANNING COMMISSION WOULD
ISSUE A RECOMMENDATION ON THIS
AND THE CITY COUNCIL WOULD
ULTIMATELY APPROVE IT.
SO THAT&apos;S KIND OF A LITTLE BIT
OF A LONG WINDED ANSWER TO YOUR
QUESTION BUT HOPEFULLY I GAVE
YOU THE INFORMATION THAT YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING FOR.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS GREAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MIKE WRIGHTMAN MAN
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I
HAVE THE NUMBERS RIGHT.
SO WHAT WE WHAT FAILED IN
SEPTEMBER FIVE TO FOUR WAS THEY
WANTED THEY PROPOSED TO INSTALL
THREE WE INSTALLED THREE BE
READY FOR A CAPABLE TOTAL
OF TEN.
WHAT THEY&apos;RE ASKING FOR TODAY
IS THAT IS TO GO UP TO GO TO
SEVEN VIAN GARCEAU GO FROM
THREE TO SEVEN AND THEN ZERO TO
BE READY AND THEN GO FROM FOUR
CAPABLE TO THIRTY CAPABLE.
&gt;&gt; THOSE ARE THE NUMBERS RIGHT?
YES, THAT IS CORRECT.
OK, GREAT THANKS MATT.
I HAVE A QUESTION EVERYBODY ON
THE BOARD THE ZONING BOARD
SERVES WITHOUT COMPENSATION AS
VOLUNTEERS.
WE ALL COME TO THESE MEETINGS
IN PERSON WEARING MASKS.
OUR STAFF PERSON JOHN BARRETT
COMES TO THESE MEETINGS IN
PERSON FULLY VACCINATED WEARING
A MASK.
EVERYBODY ON THE BOARD HAD TO
DEMONSTRATE FULL VACCINATION AS
I BELIEVE MOST IF NOT ALL CITY
HALL EMPLOYEES HAVE HAD TO DO.
WHY IS IT THAT WHEN YOU OR
CHRIS CHANG OR OTHER PLANNING
STAFF HAVE A PRESENTATION THAT
YOU ARE NOT REQUIRED TO COME IN
PERSON TO PRESENT AND TO TAKE
QUESTIONS?
THE PETITIONERS FOR THE MOST
PART COME IN PERSON AND YOU
YOU&apos;RE COMPENSATED FOR YOUR
TIME.
THE BOARD UP HERE IS NOT WE DO
IT FOR THE PUBLIC, FOR THE GOOD
OF THE PUBLIC IN THE COMMUNITY.
WHY IS IT THAT YOU ARE ABLE TO
ATTEND REMOTELY WHILE ALL
OF THE UNCOMPENSATED VOLUNTEERS
THAT GIVE GENEROUSLY OF OUR
TIME HAVE TO BE HERE TO ANSWER
THAT QUESTION POTENTIALLY FROM
HAVING QUORUM DAY THAT THAT WAS
A STAFF DECISION BY THE
PLANNING MANAGER?
WHY I&apos;M ASKING MATT.
OK, WELL HE&apos;S DIRECTED THE
QUESTION AT YEAH BUT YOU COULD
ANSWER IT LATER OVER A BEER BUT
I WANT TO I JUST WANT TO PUT
MAN ON THE SPOT.
OH OK.
ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; MATT WILL BE GETTING THE
BEER REMOTELY AND THE PUBLIC TO
SEE THAT FINE.
&gt;&gt; FAIR QUESTION.
I DON&apos;T MIND ANSWERING IT
ACTUALLY THAT THAT IS A
DECISION THAT OF COURSE IS
OUTSIDE MY CONTROL BUT IT WAS
AN ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION AND
REALLY THE REASON BEHIND THAT
IS STILL TO MINIMIZE THE AMOUNT
OF PEOPLE IN AN ENCLOSED SPACE
AT ONE TIME.
SO I CAN&apos;T REALLY ANSWER IT
MUCH MORE THAN THAN THAT.
BUT AGAIN, THAT&apos;S KIND OF A
DECISION IF YOU DO HAVE AN
ISSUE WITH IT.
I DEFINITELY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
PLEASE SPEAK TO THE HIGHER UPS.
&gt;&gt; SO WHO&apos;S WHO MADE THAT
DECISION?
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT WAS A WHOLE
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
THIS IS LIKE THIS FOR MANY
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS EVEN AS
WELL AS FOR CITY COUNCIL
MEETINGS AS WELL.
SO I CAN&apos;T SAY TO SPECIFIC WHO
WOULD MAKE THE DECISION BUT I
KNOW THAT THIS IS FOR ALL
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, NOT
JUST FOR ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
&gt;&gt; IT JUST SEEMS UNFAIR THAT
ONE OF YOUR STAFF HAS TO BE
HERE AND THE REST DON&apos;T.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT AND IF
IT&apos;S IF IT&apos;S THE PLANNING
DIRECTOR THAT I NEED TO PRESENT
THIS TO, I&apos;LL DO THAT IF IT&apos;S
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR, I&apos;LL DO
THAT.
YES, I MEAN IT I WOULD GO
THROUGH ALL OF THE ABOVE
BECAUSE AGAIN THIS IS MORE LIKE
THIS FOR ALL BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
WE CAN ONLY HAVE ONE STAFF
MEMBER THERE POOR PLANNING
COMMISSION AS WELL AND THAT
SUPPORTING STAFF IS ABLE TO
ATTEND REMOULADE BUT YES, FAIR
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FROM TOP
ONE?
MATT TODD GRAB IT.
MAYBE IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
OUT
OF THE PURVIEW OF THE CBA HERE
BUT THE PROBLEM I HAVE WITH THE
CURRENT ORDINANCE IS THAT IT
TREATS ALL PARKING PLACES THE
SAME AND I BELIEVE IN SEPTEMBER
I USE THE EXAMPLE OF A FUNERAL
HOME IF IT HAS A LARGE PARKING
LOT PEOPLE ARE ONLY THERE FOR A
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME AND THE
LAST THING ON THEIR MIND IS
CHARGING THEIR CAR HERE WITH A
CHURCH PEOPLE SHOW UP ONE DAY A
WEEK FOR A SHORT PERIOD
OF TIME.
THESE PARKING SPACES ARE VERY
DIFFERENT FROM PARKING SPACES
OUTSIDE OF AN APARTMENT
BUILDING WHERE SOMEBODY SLEEPS
ALL NIGHT IN THE CAR IS THERE
FOR FIFTEEN HOURS OR IN AN IN
SOMEBODY&apos;S HOME THAT&apos;S WHERE
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO CHARGE THE
CARS.
RIGHT.
AND I ALSO HAVE SOME
SENSITIVITY TO NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS.
I DON&apos;T THINK THE ORDINANCE
DOES A GOOD JOB OF BEING
SENSITIVE TO THESE TWO FACTORS
.
THE PARKING PLACE IS NOT
EQUIVALENT WHEREVER IT IS.
IT&apos;S A FUNCTION OF THE USE AND
THE CHARACTER AND HOW LONG
PEOPLE ARE AT THE SPACE AND I
DON&apos;T SEE THAT HAPPENING.
IT&apos;S NOT REALLY YOU KNOW,
PROBABLY PART OF WHAT I DO AT
THE ZIBA BUT I THINK IT&apos;S A BIG
HOLE.
SO THAT SAID, I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE
IN FAVOR OF THE THING HERE
TONIGHT.
THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT OF WORK INTO
IT AND THAT&apos;S OBVIOUSLY IN PART
DUE TO YOU AND THAT&apos;S GREAT.
BUT IF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
IS THINKING THIS, I HOPE THEY
THINK A LITTLE MORE DEEPLY
ABOUT HOW THESE SPACES ARE USED
GIVEN THE FUNCTION OF EACH
BUSINESS.
I THINK THAT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YES, THANK YOU.
IF I COULD JUST ADD TO THAT.
YEAH, NO I AGREE AND YOU&apos;RE
RIGHT AND THAT WAS EXACTLY SOME
OF THE MOTIVATION BEHIND THE
CODE REVISIONS THAT THAT ARE
BEING PUT FORTH BEFORE PLANNING
COMMISSION A COUPLE OF WEEKS AS
THEY STEP TAKE A STEP BACK AND
LOOK USES THAT ARE A LITTLE BIT
MORE TRYING TO LOOK A LITTLE
BIT MORE SPECIFIC AND THAT&apos;S
WHY SOME OF THE RATIOS CHANGED
SIGNIFICANTLY AGAIN ON THIS.
THEY HAD IT&apos;S REALLY PREVIOUSLY
THE BREAKDOWN WHEN WE HAVE
RECATEGORIZE WAS 10 PERCENT
E.V. INSTALLED AND TEN, TEN,
FIFTEEN THEY&apos;VE CHANGED SINCE
WE&apos;VE ELIMINATED ONE OF THE
CATEGORIES THEY WENT TO THIRTY
PERCENT CAPABLE WHICH AGAIN THE
ONES THAT ARE NOT DIRECTLY
INSTALLED.
SO THEY LOWERED THE AMOUNT
OF INSTALLS THAT ARE REQUIRED
FOR RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS LIKE
THIS.
SO THEY ABSOLUTELY DID LOOK AT
THOSE REQUIREMENTS.
BUT STILL AGAIN THE INSTALL IS
REALLY OBVIOUSLY THE MOST
DISRUPTION, THE MOST COST
INITIALLY BUT STILL REQUIRED TO
DO THE AB CAPABLE SO THAT AGAIN
TEN FIFTEEN TWENTY YEARS,
WHATEVER IT IS DOES BECOME MORE
POPULAR.
THEY HAVE THESE THIRTY EXTRA
SPOT SPOTS FOR LACK OF A BETTER
WORD THAT THEY CAN CONVERT MORE
EASILY TO THE EV CHARGE.
SO THEY DID ABSOLUTELY.
THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
A GOOD COMMENT POINT AND
ABSOLUTELY PLANIT MISSION DID
LOOK AT THAT AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I THANK YOU.
I KIND OF WANT TO RESPOND TO
THAT DIRECTLY AND SAY YOU KNOW,
THIS PROPOSAL CONTENDS THAT THE
INCLUSION OF THE EV PARKING
SPACES DECREASES THIS
NONPROFIT&apos;S ABILITY TO ADDRESS
THE NEEDS OF THEIR
CONSTITUENCY.
AND I I WANT TO SPECIFICALLY
RESPOND TO WHAT YOU JUST SAID,
DAD , BUT ALSO RESPOND TO THE
PETITION AND FLIP THE QUESTION
AROUND HOW DOES SUPPLYING EVERY
PARKING INFRASTRUCTURE NOT
SUPPORT THE CONSTITUENCY AND
THEIR ABILITY TO SUPPORT THEIR
CONSTITUENCY?
THE COVID HAS INCREASED THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WANTING
ELECTRIC CARS FOR SOME REASON I
CAN&apos;T REMEMBER WHAT THE
CONNECTION WAS BUT I WAS
READING THIS TODAY OUR ABILITY
TO TO ALLOW THE THE CITIZENRY
TO CHARGE THEIR CARS IS
IMPORTANT AND IT&apos;S COMING DOWN
THE PIKE.
AND SO I WANT TO ASK THE
QUESTION DIRECTLY HOW DOES THE
INFRASTRUCTURE TO CHARGE YOUR
CAR NOT SUPPORT YOUR
CONSTITUENCY?
AND I DON&apos;T THINK THIS PROPOSAL
NECESSARILY ANSWERS THAT
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; AND THE OTHER THING THAT I
THINK I WANT TO SAY IS THAT AS
MUCH AS I WANT TO OFFER THE
PETITIONER&apos;S PERSPECTIVE ON
SOON CHANGING ORDINANCES, WE
HAVE TO DEAL WITH WHAT&apos;S IN
FRONT OF US.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THE
ORDINANCE AS IT IS RIGHT NOW.
AND I THINK AS A LAWYER YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO AGREE WITH ME ON THAT
WE CAN&apos;T PLAY AROUND WITH WELL
IN SIX WEEKS WE&apos;RE GOING TO
WE&apos;RE GOING TO CHANGE THAT
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO THOSE ARE REALLY MY TWO
POINTS AND I KIND OF WANT TO
KNOW WHY IF THAT&apos;S THE CASE WE
DON&apos;T HAVE EVAR WHICH WAS THAT
MIDDLE REQUIREMENT OR MIDDLE
INSTALLATION IN THE ORDINANCE
IN IN HERE.
WHAT&apos;S THE 80-20 THING ABOUT SO
I ARE WE PLAYING THE GAME
THAT&apos;S GOING TO CHANGE SOON SO
IT&apos;S OK.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S WHERE
WE&apos;RE AT AS A BOARD.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE CAN DO THAT.
I THINK WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH
THE ORDINANCE AS AS IT&apos;S
WRITTEN AND AS IT&apos;S IN PLACE
RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER QUESTIONS STAFF
CHRIS?
YEAH,
I HOPE I CAN&apos;T APOLOGIZE
.
&gt;&gt; OK, WOULD YOU BE ABLE TO
JUST GO OVER QUICKLY THE THE
CONSIDERATIONS FOR A REHEARING
THAT YOU MENTIONED AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR PRESENTATION
OF THIS?
I CAN KIND OF JUST READ THROUGH
THAT SECTION AGAIN BASICALLY.
EXACTLY WHICH IS THAT WHICH I
SAY THAT THE APPLICATION SHALL
BE MADE IN THE SAME WAY AS THE
ORIGINAL HEARING.
SO BASICALLY THE APPLICATION
SUBMITTED DISCUSSED WAS THAT
THE APPLICATION FOR REHEARING
SHALL BE DENIED BY THE ZIBA IF
THE APPLICANT IS UNABLE TO
PRESENT EVIDENCE TO SHOW THAT
THERE HAS BEEN A SUBSTANTIAL
CHANGE IN BEST CIRCUMSTANCES,
SCOPE OR NATURE OF RELIEF
REQUESTED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH ELIZABETH.
DID YOU HAVE A QUESTION?
YEAH, I MEAN SORT OF COMING OFF
YOUR QUESTION I SO WE ARE THE
INITIAL DECISION BEFORE US IS
WHETHER OR NOT WE&apos;RE HAVING A
REHEARING OR THE REHEARING IS
ALREADY HAPPENING.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS I CAN.
MY INTENTION WAS THAT WE WOULD
GO THROUGH OUR QUESTIONS WITH
MATT AND THEN BEFORE WE MOVE
FORWARD WE&apos;LL DECIDE AS A BOARD
IF WE&apos;RE COMFORTABLE WITH THE
REHEARING OR IF IT&apos;S JUST GOING
TO BE DENIED.
GOT A QUESTION.
YES, I KNOW TO APPROVE
VARIANCES WE NEED FIVE VOTES
BUT TO ACCEPT A REHEARING IS IT
JUST A SIMPLE MAJORITY TO
ACCEPT A REHEARING THAT I DON&apos;T
BECAUSE THAT&apos;S A PROCEDURAL
PROCEDURAL VOTE THAT DOESN&apos;T
REALLY NEED THE LEGAL
REQUIREMENT OF FIVE VOTES FOR
THE VARIANCE CATEGORIZED BY MY
SUGGESTION WOULD BE WE CAN
ACCEPT A REHEARING WITH JUST A
SIMPLE MAJORITY.
SO FOUR VOTES WHATEVER HOWEVER
WORKS OUT DEPENDING ON HOW MANY
PEOPLE ARE ABSENT.
I BELIEVE THAT&apos;S CORRECT AND
THAT&apos;S CONSISTENT WITH MANY
YEARS AGO WHEN WAS THE LAST
TIME I HAD A REHEARING BUT THAT
WAS CONSISTENT HOW IT&apos;S DONE IN
THAT OH MY SO I MEAN ON THE
REHEARING POINT THAT MATT MADE
MATT MAKES AS FAR AS WHAT
WHAT&apos;S THE STANDARD TO ME THE
SCOPE HAS GONE UP SIGNIFICANTLY
HERE.
THE TOTAL NUMBER OF SPOTS HAS
GONE UP BY OVER 250 PERCENT.
THE NUMBER OF EVERYBODY HAS
GONE UP OVER ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT.
THAT TO ME WARRANTS A REHEARING
SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN IN
SPACES HERE AGAIN, I&apos;LL JUST
AGREE I THINK FOR ME THAT THE
FACT THAT THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING
ADDITIONAL EBR SPACES IS A
CHANGE IN SCOPE.
SO I MEAN IT SEEMS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD TO ME BUT
OBVIOUSLY IF ANYONE FEELS THAT
WE CAN DISCUSS THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MATT?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
ON THE TOPIC OF THE REHEARING,
I GUESS I CAN TAKE A QUICK VOTE
ALL IN FAVOR.
I MOVE WE ACCEPT THIS FOR
REHEARING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, DAVE.
SUPPORT FROM TED.
OK, WE&apos;LL DO A ROLL CALL JUST
TO MAKE THINGS EASIER TO ADD.
OH YES MIKE.
YES, DAVE DIVERTER YES.
CHRIS REALLY?
YES.
I VOTE YES.
ELIZABETH YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE REQUEST FOR REHEARING IS
MOVING FORWARD.
WE&apos;VE DEALT WITH STAFF SO NOW
THE PETITIONER IF THE
PETITIONER IS READY, PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
IT&apos;S GOOD TO SEE YOU ALL IN
PERSON.
UM, THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
THIS EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR REHEARING.
OUR PROPOSAL MY NAME IS JASON
VAN RYAN.
I WORK FOR AN EIGHT YEAR OLD.
WE&apos;RE CIVIL ENGINEERS.
OUR OFFICE IS AT THREE ZERO
THREE SEVEN MILLER ROAD IN ANN
ARBOR.
I&apos;M HERE TONIGHT ON BEHALF
OF GRACE BIBLE CHURCH.
I&apos;M JOINED BY RAGAN SIMS WHO IS
A PASTOR AT GRACE BIBLE CHURCH
AND MICHAEL HODGES WHO IS ALSO
A MEMBER THERE.
THEY ARE ALSO HERE TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS THAT MAY COME UP
AS MATT BROUGHT UP AND DID A
GREAT JOB INTRODUCING A WE ARE
HERE TONIGHT FOR A REDUCTION IN
THE NUMBER AND TYPE OF PARKING
SPACES THAT ARE REQUIRED BY THE
ORDINANCE
.
I THINK A LOT OF YOU WERE AT
THE MEETING IN SEPTEMBER AND WE
LISTENED CAREFULLY DURING THAT
MEETING AND THERE WAS A LOT
OF DISCUSSION ABOUT BASING THE
NUMBER OF PROPOSED EV CHARGING
STATIONS OFF OF THE PROPOSED
PARKING THAT WE WERE BUILDING.
SEVERAL OF THE BOARD MEMBERS
SUGGESTED THAT SHOULD BE THAT
WOULD BE THE MINIMUM STANDARD
THAT WOULD BE ALLOWED.
SO WE ARE BACK BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT AND WE ARE PROPOSING EV
BASED ON THE ONE SEVEN NEWLY
PROPOSED SPACES THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING.
AS MATT SAID, THESE SPACES WILL
BE CONSTRUCTED THE 107 SPACES
WILL BE CONSTRUCTED IN TWO
SEPARATE PHASES THE BOARD IT&apos;S
CALLS FOR THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE SPACES TO BE DESIGNED
FOR EV CHARGING AND TONIGHT WE
ARE ASKING YOU TO CONSIDER
ALLOWING THIRTY SEVEN TOTAL EV
PARKING SPACES SEVEN EV
INSTALLED AND THIRTY EV CAPABLE
SO JUST TO GET IN ON THAT A
LITTLE BIT MORE THE THE THE
SEVEN EBBIE INSTALLED SPACES
WILL BE BUILT AS PART OF PHASE
ONE IN AND I BROUGHT A BOARD I
DON&apos;T I&apos;M ALLOWED TO SHOW THIS
OR NOT BUT I&apos;M SURE THIS IS
KIND OF A BLOW UP OF THE OF THE
PROPOSED PARKING AREA AND WHAT
WE&apos;RE DOING IS WE&apos;RE SAYING
BASICALLY WE WANT TO BUILD
SEVEN EV INSTALLED.
ONE WILL BE INSTALLED FOR THE
SPACE AND THE OTHER SIX WILL BE
INSTALLED ALONG HERE IN THE
PHASE ONE AREA AND THEN THE
PHASE TWO AREA WILL HAVE THE
REMAINING THIRTY EBBY CAPABLE
SPACES.
SO THE REMAINING EV CHARGING
STATIONS WILL BE MADE CAPABLE
MEANING THAT THE THESE CONDUITS
WILL BE INSTALLED AS PART
OF THE INITIAL PHASE.
BUT YOU KNOW THE ACTUAL
CHARGING STATION AND THE THE
WIRES AND EVERYTHING WILL NOT
BE PUT IN UNTIL THE FUTURE
PHASE IS CONSTRUCTED.
SO LET ME EXPLAIN WHY WE&apos;RE
ASKING FOR THIS THIS MIX OF THE
INSTALLED MEBY CAPABLE.
&gt;&gt; SO FIRST THE CHURCH PEOPLE
PEOPLE ARE GENERALLY ON R AT
THE CHURCH FOR ABOUT SEVENTY
FIVE MINUTES EVERY SUNDAY
CHURCH HAS THREE SERVICES EVERY
SUNDAY AND THE SERVICES ARE
IT&apos;S APPROXIMATELY 60 MINUTES.
THIS WILL ALLOW FOR SEVEN TO
SEVEN INSTALL CHARGING STATIONS
TO BE USED BY THREE DIFFERENT
CARS MEANING THAT THE SEVEN
STATE CHARGING STATIONS
ACTUALLY WILL BE A AVAILABLE
FOR CHARGING TWENTY ONE
DIFFERENT CARS OVER THAT SUNDAY
MORNING.
SO THAT&apos;S IN THIS AREA UP HERE.
IN ADDITION TO THIS, THE CHURCH
CURRENTLY HAS LESS THAN TEN
FULL TIME EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEES
THAT WORK IN THE BUILDING
THROUGHOUT THE WEEK.
SO WE FEEL THAT THE SEVEN
INSTALLED SPACES WILL BE
ADEQUATE TO SERVICE THOSE TEN
FULL TIME EMPLOYEES IF THE
CHURCH CONTINUES TO GROW, THEY
WILL INSTALL THE REMAINING
THIRTY EV CAPABLE SPACES SORRY
WITH WITH THE SO I THINK THE
REASON THE MAIN REASON THAT
THEY DON&apos;T WANT TO DO LIKE MORE
EV INSTALL IS BECAUSE OF THE
CONSTANTLY EVOLVING
REQUIREMENTS OF ELECTRIC
VEHICLES.
THE CHURCH IS ASKING FOR THIS
CONSIDERATION TO ENSURE THAT
THEY DO NOT HAVE TO INSTALL THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT MAY BE
OBSOLETE BY THE TIME THEY WANT
TO USE IT.
THIS FLEXIBILITY WILL ALSO
PROVIDE THE CHURCH WITH THE
ABILITY TO INSTALL THE RIGHT
TYPE OF EQUIPMENT THAT WILL
MEET THE NEEDS OF THEIR FUTURE
CONGREGATION.
SO LIKEWISE WHEN THESE
ADDITIONAL THIRTY SPACES ARE
INSTALLED THEY WILL THEY WILL
ALSO BE ABLE TO BE USED THREE
TIMES EACH SUNDAY BECAUSE
OF THE THREE SERVICES.
SO IN ALL IF YOU COMBINE THE
SEVEN AND THE THIRTY EACH BEING
ABLE TO BE USED THREE TIMES ON
A SUNDAY THAT WILL THAT&apos;S LIKE
ONE HUNDRED AND ELEVEN
DIFFERENT CARS THAT CAN GET
CHARGED ON A SUNDAY MORNING.
I THINK THAT&apos;S THE BASIS FOR
IT.
I THINK TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION, MR. FARRA, THE THE
REASON THEY DON&apos;T WANT TO DO
YOU KNOW MORE BERETTI OR WHY HE
SAID THAT YOU THINK IT&apos;S A
DETRIMENT OR WHY WOULD IT BE A
DETRIMENT TO PROVIDE THIS TO
THE PEOPLE THAT GO TO THIS
CHURCH?
THE MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE THAT
COME TO THIS CHURCH DRIVE LIKE
FOR MILES AND THEY&apos;RE ONLY
GOING TO BE AT THE SITE FOR
LIKE AN HOUR.
SO I THINK THE MAJORITY
OF THOSE PEOPLE WILL NOT NEED
TO CHARGE THEIR CAR BECAUSE
THEY WILL BE IT WILL BE
CHARGED, YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU&apos;RE
GOING FOR MILES.
SO IT&apos;LL BE MOSTLY CHARGE.
SO I THINK YOU KNOW IT JUST TO
PROVIDE ALL THOSE SPACES JUST
THEY WOULD NOT BE UTILIZED.
AND IN ADDITION TO THAT, YOU
HAVE TO YOU KNOW, PARKING
SPACES CAN ONLY BE USED FOR
CHARGERS FOR CARS.
SO WE WOULD BE BASICALLY
ELIMINATING ALL OF THE SPACES
FROM THE PARKING FIELD OF WHAT
PEOPLE WOULD BE ALLOWED TO PARK
IN THAT DIDN&apos;T HAVE AN EASY
CAR.
SO THAT&apos;S KIND OF THE BASIS FOR
THAT.
BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S PRETTY MUCH
IT IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS.
LIKE I SAID, WE&apos;RE HERE TO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS AND YEAH,
WE LOOK FORWARD TO HOPEFULLY IN
A PURPLE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
NOBODY.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS IF YOU ARE HERE IN PERSON,
PLEASE COME FORWARD AT THIS
TIME SEEING NO ONE IF THERE IS
ANYONE REMOTELY WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION, PLEASE
CALL NOW PRESS STAR NINE IF
YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING VIA THE WEB
LINK PLEASE USE THE RAISE YOUR
HAND FEATURE AND STAFF WILL
CALL ON YOU ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU KRISTEN.
I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT WE
RECEIVED ANY LETTERS REGARDING
THIS PETITION.
SO WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE&apos;RE IN
DISCUSSION MIKE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH SO I VOTED FOR THIS
LAST TIME I WAS ONE OF FOUR WHO
VOTED YES FIVE VOTED NO
COMMISSIONERS&apos; GRANT NELSON
VOTED WITH ME THAT I WAS WITH
THIS BEFORE.
THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE
IN MY OPINION AS A GOOD FAITH
ATTEMPT TO AGAIN GO AT OVER
HUNDRED AND FIFTY PERCENT
INCREASE IN TOTAL SPACE&apos;S OVER
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT INCREASE IN
INSTALLED SPACES.
THIS IS CONTINUES TO BE A YES
FOR ME CERTAINLY.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO BE VOTING FOR
THIS.
I WILL SAY BRIEFLY THAT I
THOUGHT LAST TIME WHAT WAS
BEING PROPOSED WAS NOT QUITE
ENOUGH.
BUT I THINK THIS NEW THIS NEW
PETITION WITH THE ADDITIONAL
SPACES I THINK IS BRINGING IT
MORE IN LINE WITH SOME OF THE
OTHER VARIANCES THAT WE&apos;VE
GRANTED BY APPLYING IT TO JUST
THE THE ENTIRETY OF THE
PROPOSED BASIS AND NOT THE
ENTIRE PARKING LOT.
I ALSO ALTHOUGH I RECOGNIZE
CHRIS&apos;S COMMENTS ABOUT CHANGING
ORDINANCES AND MAY OR MAY NOT
HAPPEN FOR ME THAT DOES CARRY
SOME WEIGHT KNOWING THAT THIS
IS KIND OF THE THE PATH THAT
THE CITIES ON THAT THEY&apos;RE
TAKING ACTION TO CORRECT SOME
VAGUENESS IN THE ORDINANCE.
SO THE FACT THAT THIS PETITION
IS GENERALLY IN CONFORMANCE
WITH WHAT WOULD BE REQUIRED
UNDER THOSE NEW STANDARDS AND
WOULDN&apos;T NEED A VARIANCE IN
THAT CASE THAT CARRIES SOME
WEIGHT FOR ME.
SO I THINK I&apos;M GENERALLY IN
SUPPORT OF THIS.
DAVE, UM, I SUPPORT THIS.
I UH THINK THE PETITIONERS ARE
COMING IN WITH THE SUBSTANTIAL
CHANGES.
I BELIEVE IT&apos;S WITHIN THE LAW
AS AN ESSENTIALLY AN
ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE, A BOARD,
THE ZUBA IT&apos;S WITHIN OUR RIGHTS
TO EXERCISE THE DISCRETION
OF CONSIDERING THE CHANGES
PROPOSED CHANGES THAT ARE IN
THE PIPELINE AND THIS I
RECOGNIZE THAT THE PETITIONER
HAS WORKED WITH THE ZONING
STAFF AND HAS COME IN WITH A
PROPOSAL WHICH ESSENTIALLY
MEETS THE CHANGES THAT ARE IN
THE PIPELINE AND I WILL SUPPORT
I MAY HAVE MISCHARACTERIZED
WHERE I STAND ON THIS.
I APPRECIATE THE INTEREST IN
GETTING THE CONDUIT OUT THERE
SO THAT IN THE FUTURE WHEN WE
HAVE WIRELESS PARKING YOU&apos;LL BE
ABLE TO REBUILD YOUR PARKING
LOT AND I HOPE YOU CATCH MY
PARTNER BUT I THINK I WOULD
SUPPORT THIS JUST BECAUSE
OF THE INCREASE IN PARKING
SPACES.
BUT I DO THE LOGIC THAT IT&apos;S
NOT A SUPPORT BECAUSE IT&apos;S
COSTING YOUR CONSTITUENCY A I
DON&apos;T GET THAT THIS IS A
SUPPORT.
THIS IS INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
WHAT&apos;S COMING DOWN THE LINE
THAT IS SUPPORTING YOUR
CONSTITUENTS.
I I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW WE GET
AROUND THAT BUT I WILL BE
SUPPORTING ELIZABETH.
I PLAN TO SUPPORT THIS.
I SUPPORTED IT LAST TIME BUT I
APPRECIATE THE GOOD FAITH
EFFORT AND INCREASING WHAT&apos;S ON
OFFER.
I, I WILL SAY I AM A LITTLE
SUSPICIOUS OF THE MATH OF THESE
SPOTS CYCLING THROUGH THE THREE
SERVICES BECAUSE ALL IT TAKES
IS ONE STAFF PERSON WHO IS
MANNING ALL THREE SERVICES TO
BE TAKING UP ONE SPOT AND
IDEALLY WE WANT EVERYBODY TO BE
EVENTUALLY INCORPORATING MORE
SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGY.
BUT AT ANY RATE I WILL BE
SUPPORTING THIS AND I
APPRECIATE THAT IT&apos;S OFFERING
MORE OF A BENEFIT, MORE CLOSER
TO COMPLIANCE.
THE ORDINANCE THANKS
, CHRIS.
I THINK I INITIALLY AGREED WITH
THE OTHER CHRIS JUST BASED ON
THE APPLICANTS RESPONSES AND
HOW MANY TIMES YOU NOTED YOUR
NONPROFIT, IT SEEMS LIKE
FINANCIAL REASONS ARE THE
BIGGEST UH, REASON FOR NOT
WANTING TO DO MORE.
BUT I THINK THAT&apos;S VERY
UNDERSTANDABLE AND I THINK THAT
THE COST OF MORE FOR IN
ADDITION LIKE THIS ON THE
NONPROFIT INSTITUTION COULD BE
SO BURDENSOME AS TO POTENTIALLY
PREVENT, YOU KNOW, WHAT IS
OTHERWISE PERMITTED USE FROM
FROM GOING IN SO I DO SUPPORT
IT.
YEAH, I&apos;M PREPARED TO MAKE A
MOTION IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO FOLLOW
THE MOTION WE HAVE IS FINE BUT
I THINK INSTEAD JUST SAY THIRTY
SEVEN ANY SPACES SPECIFICALLY
SAY THIRTY SEVEN TOTAL ELECTRIC
VEHICLE SPACES OF WHICH THIRTY
ARE COMPATIBLE AND I AND SEVEN
ARE FULLY INSTALLED AND READY
TO GO SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES HOTEL MAKE THAT CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; YES THANK YOU
.
WERE THERE ANY COMMENTS ANYONE
HAD BEFORE.
ALL RIGHT GO FOR DAVE ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH ZERO ZERO EIGHT
THIRTEEN HUNDRED SOUTH MAPLE
ROAD BASED ON THE FOLLOWING
FINDINGS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS THE
FOLLOWING VARIANCE FROM CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN POINT ONE SUBSECTION
EIGHT PARKING STANDARDS
APPLICABILITY APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING THE INSTALLATION
OF THIRTY SEVEN ELECTRIC
VEHICLE PARKING STATIONS
OF WHICH SEVEN SHALL BE EV
INSTALLED AND THIRTY EV CAPABLE
A VARIANCE OF FORTY THREE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING
STATIONS AS BEING REQUESTED.
THE VARIANCE GRANTED IS IN
HARMONY WITH THE GENERAL
PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE
REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION FIVE
POINT NINETEEN A MOTION TO
SUPPORT FOR SOME TIME.
THANK YOU ELIZABETH.
YES CHRIS MADIGAN YES I ALSO
VOTE YES.
YES DAVE DEVOURER YES.
&gt;&gt; CHRIS REILLY REILLY YES.
TODD YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
&gt;&gt; MOVING ON WE HAVE NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
WE HAVE DEALT WITH NEW BUSINESS
COMMUNICATION THIS WE HAVE
ADDRESSED PUBLIC COMMENTS.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK TO
THE ZIBA ON ANY MATTER THAT WAS
NOT A PUBLIC HEARING ITEM
PLEASE CALL IN NOW PRESS NINE
IF YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING VIA THE WEB
LINK PLEASE USE THE RAISE YOUR
HAND FEATURE
.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU, CHRISTINE WITH THE
MOTION TO CHRIS.
&gt;&gt; YES, THE MOTION TO ADJOURN
FABULOUS SUPPORT FROM MIKE ALL
IN FAVOR I SUPPOSE WE&apos;RE
ADJOURNED.
&gt;&gt; THANKS EVERYONE.
MY